>>> THE MANAGERS ON THE PART OF
THE REPRESENTATIVES ARE PRESENT
AND READY TO PRESENT THE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT AGAINST
DONALD JOHN TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
>> THE SENATE WILL CONCEDE TO
THE CONSIDERATION OF THE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT. THE
CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED
STATES WILL PROVIDE, PRESIDE
OVER THE TRIAL AS REQUIRED.
SECTION - OF THE UNITED STATES
CONSTITUTION.
>> DO YOU SOLEMNLY SWEAR THAT IN
ALL THINGS APPERTAINING TO THE
TRIAL OF THE IMPEACHMENT OF
DONALD JOHN TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES, NOW PENDING,
YOU WILL DO IMPARTIAL JUSTICE,
ACCORDING TO THE CONSTITUTION
AND LAWS SO HELP YOU GOD?
>>> YOU ARE LOOKING LIVE AT THE
U.S. CAPITOL AS THE
THIRD IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IN
AMERICAN HISTORY IS ABOUT TO
GAVEL IN. THIS IS LIVE COVERAGE
FROM THE WASHINGTON POST. I AM
WITH THE KC. WE ARE EXPECTING A
FIERCE DEBATE TODAY OVER THE
RULES OF THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
OF PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP.
JOINED IN THE STUDIO BY THE BY
MY COLLEAGUES. THANK YOU SO MUCH
TO BOTH OF YOU. THINGS WILL GET
UNDERWAY IN THE SENATE AT 1:00.
WE'VE GOT TIME TO DIG INTO WHAT
TO EXPECT THE DAY ON THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS WEEK TO
COME.
- HEAR FROM OPENING ARGUMENTS
BUT THERE IS A LOT OF FOCUS ON
PROCESS. WHY IS IT SO IMPORTANT?
>> I THINK WHAT IS GOING TO BE
IMPORTANT TO TAKE AWAY FROM
TODAY IS, YES, WE ARE NOT
HEARING THE START OF EACH SIDE
OF THIS DEBATE MAKING THEIR
CASE, BUT WE ARE GOING TO SEE A
SHOW OF MITCH McCONNELL'S
STRENGTH WITHIN HIS OWN CAUCUS.
WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN TODAY
IS THAT THE SENATORS ARE GOING
TO DEBATE AND THEN VOTE ON HIS
PLAN THAT HE RELEASED YESTERDAY
FOR HOW HE WOULD LIKE THE SENATE
TRIAL TO GO. AND THIS WILL BE A
VERY TANGIBLE RESULT FOR HIM AND
NOT HIS FIRST BUT ONE OF HIS
FIRST BIG ACTIONS. IN THE SENATE
TRIAL.
SO, WE WILL MOST LIKELY SEE ALL
OF HIS, THE MEMBERS OF HIS
CAUCUS GIVE HIM WHAT HE WANTS,
AT LEAST IN THIS INITIAL PHASE,
AND THEN IT WILL BE QUESTIONS
AFTER THAT. THAT'S WHAT WE
LEARNED TODAY.
>> YOU HAVE BEEN FOCUSED ON THE
QUESTIONS OF WHAT THE PRESIDENT
DID, WHAT HE KNEW, AND WHO ALL
THESE PLAYERS ARE IN HIS ORBIT.
YOU BEEN FOCUSED ON THIS FOR
MONTHS NOW. THERE IS A REAL
QUESTION, WE'LL GET TO HEAR FROM
ANY NEW WITNESSES. IF WE WILL
GET EVEN SEE ANY OF THE NEW
DOCUMENT SET UP AND COMING OUT,
POURING OUT LAST WEEK. IF ANY OF
THAT WILL MAKE THEIR WAY INTO
THE SENATE TRIAL. HOW
SIGNIFICANT IS THAT QUESTION IN
YOUR MIND?
>> I THINK IT'S PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT. THE WAY THE WORLD
WORKS NOW IS, YOU KIND OF ALWAYS
NEED SOMETHING NEW TO KEEP A
STORY PROPELLING FORWARD AND TO
KEEP PEOPLE'S INTEREST. SO, FOR
THEM FROM THE DEMOCRATS
PERSPECTIVE, I THINK IT WOULD BE
VERY HELPFUL FOR THEM IF THEY
COULD FIND NEW INFORMATION
BEYOND JUST THE CASE THAT WAS
MADE IN THE HOUSE. AND THEY HAVE
SOME PEOPLE OUT THERE WHO HAVE
VERY SIGNIFICANT STORIES TO TELL
WHO HAVE INDICATED AT LEAST SOME
WILLINGNESS TO TELL THEM. MOST
ESPECIALLY, JOHN BOLTON, THE
FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR, WHO HAS INDICATED THAT
HE WOULD BE POTENTIALLY WILLING
TO TESTIFY TO THE SENATE. HE DID
NOT TESTIFY IN FRONT OF THE
HOUSE BECAUSE HIS LEGAL TEAM HAD
SAID THAT THEY NEEDED A COURT
ORDER FIRST. AND THE DEMOCRATS
DID NOT PURSUE THAT. AND THEN,
THIS GIULIANI ASSOCIATE, LES
PARNAS CAME OUT WITH NEW
DOCUMENTS AND INTERVIEWS, WHO
VERY MUCH WOULD LIKE TO BE
CALLED TO TELL HIS STORY.
>> SENATOR - SPOKE WITH
REPORTERS MOMENTS AGO. HE CALLED
LEADER McCONNELL'S RESOLUTION A
NATIONAL DISGRACE. HE SAID THEY
WOULD GO DOWN
IN HISTORY AS A DARK DAY. LET'S
LISTEN.
>> IT APPEARS THAT LEADER
McCONNELL DECIDED TO GO ALONG
WITH THE PRESIDENTS DESIRE TO
COVER UP HIS WRONGDOING. HOOK,
LINE, AND SINKER. IT ALMOST
SEEMS THAT THE RESOLUTION WAS
WRITTEN IN THE WHITE HOUSE, NOT
IN THE SENATE. OF THE MacCONNELL
RESOLUTION IS THE BLUEPRINT FOR
AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL ON
FAST-FORWARD.
IT ASKS THE SENATE TO SPRINT
THROUGH THE TRIAL AS FAST AS
POSSIBLE, AND MAKES GETTING
EVIDENCE AS HARD AS POSSIBLE.
THE BOTTOM LINE, LEADER
McCONNELL ONCE THE PROCESS
RUSHED
, WITH AS LITTLE EVIDENCE AS
POSSIBLE IN THE DARK OF NIGHT.
>> THAT IS SENATOR SCHUMER
TALKING TO REPORTERS A FEW
MOMENT AGO. NATALIE, HE HAS A
COUPLE OF DIFFERENT AUDIENCES.
ONE IS THE AMERICAN PUBLIC, AND
WHAT I THINK MODERATE
REPUBLICANS THAT HE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO PULL OVER TO HIS SIDE OF
THINGS. SO, HE HAS TO BE CAREFUL
IN HIS MESSAGING
. DOES HE GO VERY POLITICAL? OR
DOES HE REIN IT IN A LITTLE BIT
TO NOT SCARE OFF THOSE MODERATE
REPUBLICANS?
>> YES, AND THE AUDIENCE ARE A
LITTLE BIT ONE IN THE SAME
BECAUSE A LOT OF WHAT IS GOING
TO BE DETERMINING FACTORS FOR
THESE MODERATE REPUBLICANS, SOME
OF THEM LIKE SENATOR STEVEN
COLLINS FROM MAINE ARE UP FOR
REELECTION NEXT, THIS YEAR. AND,
PUBLIC SENTIMENT ABOUT WHAT IS
GOING ON IS PRETTY SIMILAR. BUT
YES, MORE NEAR-TERM, THERE IS
JUST A HANDFUL OF PEOPLE, HIS
COLLEAGUES WHO HE IS REALLY
TRYING TO SPEAK TO AND REALLY
TRYING TO PRESSURE. AND THEY ARE
ALSO GETTING PRESSURE FROM THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE FOR THE OPPOSITE
OUTCOME.
>> ABSOLUTELY. LET'S GO TO OUR
COLLEAGUE RHONDA KOKICH
ON CAPITOL HILL. RHONDA, THANKS
FOR JOINING US. I KNOW YOU'RE
JUST AT THAT SCHUMER PRESS
CONFERENCE A FEW MOMENTS AGO.
WHAT ELSE ARE YOU HEARING TALKED
ABOUT TODAY? I WOULD ALSO LIKE
TO FOR YOU TO LAY OUT WHAT TO
EXPECT GOING FORWARD THIS
AFTERNOON.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, LIBBY, I WAS
JUST IN THE MINORITY LEADER'S
PRESS CONFERENCE.
I WAS FILLED WITH REPORTERS. I
CAN HAVE THE GET HIM. EVERYONE
WANTS TO HEAR WHAT THE MINORITY
IS SAYING NOW THAT WERE ONLY
ABOUT AN HOUR AWAY FROM THE
START OF THIS TRIAL. WHAT HE
SAID IN THE PRESS CONFERENCES
THAT, AS YOU JUST SAID, IT WAS A
NATIONAL DISGRACE. THE
RESOLUTION THAT MITCH McCONNELL
CAME UP WITH IS A NATIONAL
DISGRACE AND IT IS REALLY
PUTTING A LOT OF THE POTENTIAL
EVIDENCE, POTENTIAL WITNESSES
AND HOUSE EVIDENCE UNDER THE
CLOAK OF DARKNESS. AND HE AND
OTHER DEMOCRATS THAT I AM
HEARING FROM ON THE HILL THIS
MORNING, I REALLY DECRYING THIS
RESOLUTION SAYING THAT MITCH
McCONNELL PROMISED THAT THIS
WOULD BE LIKE THE CLINTON
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS, BUT IT IS
ACTUALLY
VERY MUCH DEVIATING FROM THAT
PROCESS. NOW, PART OF THE
STICKING POINTS IN THAT
RESOLUTION THAT WE ARE GOING TO
SEE VOTED ON TODAY IS THAT THIS
WILL ALL PLAY OUT. THE OPENING
ARGUMENTS WILL PLAY OUT OVER A
24-HOUR PERIOD. THAT WILL BE
BROKEN UP BETWEEN TWO DAYS.
IN THE CLINTON IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL, THEY ALSO HAD A LIMIT OF
OPENING ARGUMENTS FOR 24 HOURS.
BUT THAT WAS SPREAD OUT AND
THERE WAS NO TIME LIMIT. BUT AS
EARLY AS THIS WEDNESDAY, WE
MIGHT SEE THE PRESIDENT'S
COUNSEL AND HOUSE MANAGERS START
THEIR ARGUMENTS. THEN THEY WILL
HAVE TO BE WRAPPED UP BY FRIDAY.
SO, HOUSE DEMOCRATS, THE
MANAGERS AND ALSO DEMOCRATS IN
THE SENATE ARE REALLY UPSET
ABOUT THESE RESOLUTIONS
. THE PIECES OF THIS RESOLUTION
THAT THEY ARE FINDING QUITE
TROUBLING. THE OTHER PART THAT
SENATOR SCHUMER BROUGHT UP IS
THAT THE RECORD OF EVIDENCE FROM
THE HOUSES INVESTIGATION OF THIS
PROCESS, THAT WILL NOT BE
ALLOWED TO BE AUTOMATICALLY
ENTERED INTO THE SENATE TRIAL
UNLESS THERE IS A VOTE TO
INCLUDE THOSE RECORDS. IN THE
PRESS CONFERENCE JUST NOW,
PRESIDENT SCHUMER SAID IF THERE
IS NO EVIDENCE, THERE REALLY IS
NO TRIAL. SO, A LOT OF DEMOCRATS
ON THE HILL RIGHT NOW I VERY
FRUSTRATED. YOU SEE THAT SORT OF
AS A CLIENT FLASHPOINT BEFORE WE
EVEN GET STARTED TODAY.
>> I HAVE NEWS FROM THE HOUSE
MANAGERS. THEY HAVE SENT A
LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT'S LEAD
LAWYER, WHAT ARE THEIR CONCERNS?
>> Reporter: YEAH. THAT WAS JUST
THIS MORNING, JUST A FEW HOURS
AGO. HOUSE MANAGERS SENT A
RECORD
. HE IS GOING TO BE THE LEAD
COUNSEL ON PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
TEAM THROUGHOUT THIS TRIAL. THEY
SAY THAT BASED ON THE EVIDENCE
THAT THEY COLLECTED IN THE HOUSE
THROUGHOUT THE LAST FEW MONTHS,
AND HE IS A WITNESS HIMSELF. HE
SHOULD BE FORTHCOMING WITH ANY
KNOWLEDGE HE HAS, ANY EVIDENCE,
ANY EVIDENCE BEFORE THE TRIAL
GET STARTED. NOW WE ARE ONLY
ABOUT AN HOUR AWAY FROM THE
TRIAL GETTING STARTED AND WE
HAVE NOT HEARD IF HE IS WILLING
TO COOPERATE WITH THAT. BUT THEY
POINTED OUT THAT IN THE
TESTIMONIES ON THE HILL, THE
TESTIMONY OF COLONEL GOODMAN.
THOSE PEOPLE AND OTHER WITNESSES
TO THE HOUSE TALK ABOUT HOW THEY
WENT TO ONE OF THE DEPUTIES OF
THE PRESIDENTS LEAD COUNSEL, THE
BALONEY. THEY SAID IF YOU ARE
THE BOSS AND THEN YOU ABOUT THE
WITHHOLDING OF A. THEY HAVE
NAMED HIM ABS A WITNESS. THE
HOUSE MANAGERS ALSO HAD A PRESS
CONFERENCE EARLY THIS MORNING
WHERE THEY WENT OVER THAT AND
THEY TALKED ABOUT THE NEED FOR
HIM TO BE FORTHCOMING AS A
WITNESS.
LIBBY?
>> ALL RIGHT, RHONDA COLVIN FROM
CAPITOL HILL. THANK YOU SO MUCH
IT WILL CONTINUE CHECKING IN
WITH CAPITOL HILL THROUGHOUT
THIS AFTERNOON. WE EXPECT THE
SENATE TO GET UNDERWAY AT 1:00.
A LITTLE LESS THAN AN HOUR FROM
NOW.  NATALIE, LET'S GO OVER
JUST WHAT THE CONTOURS OF THIS
MAY LOOK LIKE. RHONDA EXPLAINED
THIS IDEA OF 24 HOURS FOR EACH
SIDE TO PRESENT THE CASE. THAT
FOLLOWS ALONG THE LINES OF WHAT
HAPPENED DURING THE CLINTON
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL, WHICH MITCH
McCONNELL SAID HE REALLY WANTED
TO STICK WITH. OVER TIME. SO,
THERE IS A WEIRD QUESTION OF
JUST HOW THAT TIME WOULD BE
BROKEN UP. BECAUSE THEY ONLY
HAVE A COUPLE OF DAYS TO DO IT.
>> THAT SEEMS TO COME AS QUITE A
SURPRISE. TO MANY PEOPLE
YESTERDAY WHEN WE SAW THE
RESOLUTION THAT SENATOR
McCONNELL INTRODUCED. SO, TWO
DAYS TO GIVE 24 HOUR ARGUMENTS.
NOW,
IF YOU ARE STARTING A TRIAL AT 1
PM AND YOU ARE LOOKING TO MAKE A
VERY STRONG CASE, YOU SEE THAT
THAT GOES VERY DEEP INTO THE
NIGHT
, AND EVERYBODY KNOWS, AS ROB
WAS SAYING EARLIER, CATCHING
ATTENTION SPANS, KEEPING PEOPLE
FOCUSED, GETTING NEW MATERIAL IS
VERY IMPORTANT IN THIS BATTLE
FOR YOU KNOW, PROXY BATTLE FOR
PUBLIC OPINION, I WOULD SAY. IF
YOU'RE MAKING THAT PITCH IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT, THAT IS NOT
IDEAL. NOT IDEAL FOR PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S SITE EITHER,
POTENTIALLY, BUT YOU HAVE TO
THINK THAT THEY DON'T REALLY
HAVE A PROBLEM WITH IT. HE AND
McCONNELL PLANNING SEEM TO BE
PRETTY IN SYNC OVER THE COURSE
OF THIS.
>> HERE'S WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT THE
POST RULES. 15 HOURS FOR
QUESTIONS. FOUR HOURS OF DEBATE
ON THE WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS.
THAT'S WHAT HAS BEEN LAID OUT.
BY LEADER McCONNELL.
>> YES. AND WE ARE SORT OF
LOOKING, IF YOUR CALENDAR
WATCHING LIKE MANY OF US ARE. WE
HAVE GOT IN ABOUT TWO WEEKS
COMING UP, THE STATE OF THE
UNION IS EXACTLY 2 WEEKS FROM
TODAY. I THINK PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAS EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO HAVE
ALL OF THIS WRAPPED UP BY THEN.
SO, IF THAT IS ALSO SENATOR
McCONNELL SCHOOL, YOU COULD
UNDERSTAND A LITTLE BIT MORE WHY
HE IS PUTTING THIS CONDENSED
TIMELINE IN PLACE.
>> LEV PARNAS CAME OUT LAST WEEK
AND DID A COUPLE OF TELEVISION
INTERVIEWS, DOCUMENTS RELEASE
FROM  HOUSE DEMOCRATS THAT
BACKED UP HIS CLAIMS
. THERE'S A QUESTION OF JUST HOW
RELIABLE OF A WITNESS HE IS
BECAUSE HE IS UNDER INDICTMENT.
BUT THE MATERIAL EVIDENCE, LIKE
THE DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE, THESE
TEXTS THAT WENT BACK AND FORTH,
DEMOCRATS WOULD REALLY LOVE TO
HAVE THAT PART OF THE NATIONAL
CONVERSATION RIGHT NOW.
>> WE HEARD REPUBLICANS PUSH
BACK AND SAY WHY WASN'T THIS
BROUGHT UP EARLIER? THIS IS NOT
PART OF THE INFORMATION WE ARE
GETTING FROM THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS. SO, WHY
BRING IT UP NOW TO MARK
>> SO, AS YOU MENTIONED,
LEV PARNAS IS UNDER INDICTMENT
IN NEW YORK. THIS WAS MATERIAL
THAT WAS SEIZED BY THE FBI  WHEN
HE WAS ARRESTED. BOTH FROM HIS
HOME, WHICH WAS SEARCHED, AND
ALSO WHEN THEY SEIZED HIS CELL
PHONE. SO,
ALL OF THAT MATERIAL HAS BEEN
LOCKED UP IN THE CRIMINAL CASE.
FIRST IT HAD TO BE ESSENTIALLY
RETURNED TO HIM AND HIS LAWYER.
AND THEN, THEY HAD TO SEEK
PERMISSION, BOTH FROM THE
PROSECUTION AND FROM THE JUDGE
TO TURN THIS OVER TO CONGRESS,
EVEN THOUGH IT WAS RESPONSIVE TO
A CONGRESSIONAL SUBPOENA. SO,
THAT ACTUALLY CAME THROUGH. THAT
PERMISSION CAME THROUGH FROM THE
JUDGE. A WEEK AGO SATURDAY. AND
ON SUNDAY, HIS LAWYER CAME TO
TOWN TO HANDOFF THAT MATERIAL.
SO, THE ANSWER OF WHY NOW IS, IT
WAS NOT AVAILABLE UNTIL NOW. BUT
IT IS QUITE DIFFICULT FOR THE
DEMOCRATS BECAUSE THE MATERIAL
IS QUITE VOLUMINOUS. WHAT THEY
HAVE PUT OUT SO FAR IS HUNDREDS
OF PAGES OF MATERIAL. I THINK
THEY MAY HAVE MORE STILL THAT
THEY HAVE NOT FINISHED SIFTING
THROUGH. A LOT OF IT IS IN
RUSSIAN. IT IS TEXT MESSAGES
BETWEEN ESTHER PARNAS AND
VARIOUS OFFICIALS AND UKRAINIAN.
THEY PUT OUT SEVERAL HUNDRED
PAGES OF UNTRANSLATED RUSSIAN
MATERIAL. AND, THERE
CONTEMPORANEOUS TEXT MESSAGES.
THE WAY YOU HAVE TO WORK THOSE
INTO A CASE, YOU HAVE TO REALLY
SORT OF ANALYZE THEM, PUT THEM
ON A TIMELINE, AND KIND OF
FIGURE OUT WHAT HOLES THAT KIND
OF COMMUNICATION CAN STILL, HOW
DOES IT EXPAND YOUR KNOWLEDGE OF
WHAT WAS GOING ON
IN ANY PARTICULAR TIME TO BE
ABLE TO SEE THIS CONTEMPORANEOUS
COMMUNICATION. THE DEMOCRATS
HAVE NOT REALLY HAD TIME TO DO
THAT. THEY MOSTLY, THEY
HIGHLIGHTED A FEW DOCUMENTS WHEN
THEY TRANSMITTED THEIR MATERIAL
LAST WEEK. THEY MOSTLY JUST PUT
THIS OUT ON THE INTERNET AND LET
REPORTERS START READING IT. SO,
THEY DID NOT HAVE THE TIME, I
THINK THEY WOULD HAVE LIKED, TO
REALLY MAKE AS MUCH USE OF THIS
MATERIAL AS THEY COULD HAVE.
>> WE DID GET SORT OF A TIP OF
THE HAND LAST WEEK WHEN SUSAN
COLLINS WAS ONE OF THE
REPUBLICANS AND SAID IF IT WAS
NOT PART OF THE HOUSEWORK, WHY
BRING IT UP NOW? AND THAT IS
REALLY IMPORTANT BECAUSE,
EVERYBODY IS WATCHING TO SEE IF
SHE WILL SIDE WITH DEMOCRATS
OVER THIS PROCEDURAL MESSAGE.
SHOULD BE SEYMOUR WITNESSES,
SHOULD WE HAVE MORE EVIDENCE
BOUGHT
BROUGHT INTO PLAY. THIS POINT
WE'RE NOT SEEING ANY CRACKS IN
SORT OF REPUBLICAN UNITY FOR
KICKING THIS PROCESS OFF.
>> RIGHT. YES. AND I THINK WE
ARE LOOKING TO SUSAN COLLINS,
BUT WE ARE ALSO, WE ARE SORT OF
COUNTING ON SUSAN COLLINS AMONG
THE 3 VOTES AND AND A LOT OF THE
CONVENTIONAL WISDOM IS GOING TO
BE 3 REPUBLICANS. SENATOR
COLLINS, SENATOR ROMNEY AND
MAKOWSKI. POSSIBLY ONE AND A
COUPLE OF OTHERS. BUT SUSAN
COLLINS IS A REALLY IMPORTANT
BAROMETER OF WHETHER THINGS ARE
GOING TO NOT GO THE WAY THAT WE
CURRENTLY EXPECT, WHICH WOULD BE
TO GO, OR McCONNELL I WOULD SAY
EXPECTS. BUT YES, REALLY
WATCHING HER CLOSELY.
>> YOU HAVE BEEN HEARING SAYING
THAT WE HAVE BEEN HEARING FROM
LEV PARNAS BUT NOT  - THE OTHER
GIULIANI ASSOCIATE. WHERE IS HE?
WHAT IS GOING ON?
>> THE HEADLINE OF OUR STORY IS
WHERE'S IGOR? SO, HE IS
ON THIS TEAM, ESSENTIALLY. THEY
ARE BOTH UNDER THE SAME FEDERAL
INDICTMENT. THEY ARE JOINTLY
CHARGED IN NEW YORK. THEY WERE
AT FIRST BOTH REPRESENTED BY
LAWYERS
THAT WERE ESSENTIALLY PICKED OUT
FOR THEM BY RUDY GIULIANI. THE
SAME LEGAL TEAM THAT REPRESENTED
PAUL MANAFORT AND ALSO ACTUALLY
JOHN DOWD, WHO WAS REPRESENTING
THE PRESIDENT. AT SOME POINT,
WHEN
LEV PARNAS WAS STILL IN JAIL,
BEFORE HE GOT OUT ON BAIL, HE
DECIDED TO FIRE THAT LEGAL TEAM
, AND WENT HIS OWN WAY. BUT, THE
INTERESTING THING IS THAT OUR
REPORTING ABOUT MR. FRUMAN SHOWS
THAT THEY HAD THIS KIND OF
PARTNERSHIP. LEV PARNAS HAD KIND
OF THE GIFT OF GAB . HE WAS BORN
IN UKRAINE BUT MOVED TO THE
UNITED STATES STATES AT AGE 3 SO
HE SPOKE COMPLETELY FLUENT, AND
ACCENTED ENGLISH.
HE WAS KIND OF A CHARMER AND WAS
THE ONE WHO IN THE UNITED STATES
WAS SEEN AS THE FACE OF THE
PARTNERSHIP. BUT
WAS ONE WHO ACTUALLY KNEW PEOPLE
IN UKRAINE. SO, ALL OF THE
PEOPLE THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO
THIS STORY, AND THEY CONNECT
RUDY GIULIANI WITH THE
PROSECUTORS WITH SANKO AND
SHOKIN THE AIDES TO PRESIDENT
GALINSKY, ALL OF THOSE PEOPLE,
THEY GOT TO THROUGH
IGOR FRUMAN. HE WAS ALSO THE ONE
WHO HAD SOME MONEY. THEY USE HIS
MONEY TO MAKE CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS I GOT THEM IN THE
ROOM WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP  AND
OTHER TOP REPUBLICANS. HE IS
ACTUALLY A REALLY, REALLY KEY
PLAYER. BUT SORT OF HOLDING TRUE
TO WHAT
KIND OF PEOPLE IN THE U.S. ON
THE PARTNERSHIP IS KIND OF THE
SILENT PARTNER AT THIS POINT.
>> HOW IMPORTANT
IS THIS TESTIMONY ALONG THESE
LINES TO THE DEMOCRATS CASE? AND
ALSO JUST GETTING OUT THE TRUTH.
RIGHT? THE POLITICS OF THIS.
GETTING OUT THE TRUTH OF WHAT
ACTUALLY HAPPENED.
>> I THINK IT IS VERY IMPORTANT.
I MEAN, ONE OF THE KEY ARGUMENTS
THAT THE REPUBLICANS HAVE TRIED
TO MAKE AND I THINK WE SAW IT IN
SOME OF THE LEGAL MATERIAL FOR
THE PRESIDENT'S TEAM, IS THAT HE
WAS ALLOWED TO DO WHAT HE WAS
DOING BECAUSE YOU KNOW, AS
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
HE IS ALLOWED TO FIGHT
CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE. AND IF HE
HAD INFORMATION THAT A U.S.
CITIZEN WAS INVOLVED,
POTENTIALLY, WITH CORRUPTION,
JOE BIDEN, HE IS ALLOWED TO
PRESS FOR INFORMATION. BUT I
THINK THAT WHAT THE LEV PARNAS
INFORMATION SHOWS, THE NEW
INFORMATION, IS HOW MUCH THIS
WAS NEVER ABOUT CORRUPTION IN
UKRAINE. IT WAS ALWAYS ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL INTEREST.
ONE REALLY KEY PIECE OF
INFORMATION THAT THEY OBTAINED
FROM PARNAS THAT
THEY HAD IN THE HOUSE WAS THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAS NOW BEEN
TURNED OVER TO CONGRESSES THIS
LETTER. IT IS A LETTER FROM RUDY
GIULIANI TO PRESIDENT ZIELINSKI
THAT LEV PARNAS TOOK WITH HIM
WHEN HE WENT TO
UKRAINE IN MAY. GIULIANI IS
SEEKING A MEETING BECAUSE HE
THOUGHT HE WAS GOING TO GO ON
THIS TRIP ALSO. HE IS SEEKING A
MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE, AND HE SAYS IN BLACK
AND WHITE, I AM GOING THERE
REPRESENTING THE PRESIDENT IN
HIS CAPACITY AS A PRIVATE
CITIZEN. THE THINGS I WANT TO
TALK TO YOU ABOUT, I AM DOING AS
A PRIVATE LAWYER
FOR A PRIVATE INDIVIDUAL. SO, HE
IS JUST SAYING IN BLACK AND
WHITE, THIS IS NOT ABOUT THE
NATIONAL INTEREST. THIS IS NOT
ABOUT FOREIGN POLICY. THE THINGS
I WANT TO TALK TO YOU IS NOT
ABOUT CORRUPTION, BROADLY
SPEAKING, AND CURRENT. IT IS
ABOUT MATTERS OF PERSONAL
INTEREST TO DONALD TRUMP IN HIS
CAPACITY AS A PRIVATE CITIZEN.
AND THAT IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
>>
>> LET'S GO TO CAPITOL HILL
WHERE CONGRESSIONAL REPORTS -
REPORTER, HAS BEEN FOLLOWING
THING SO CLOSELY. WHAT ARE YOU
GOING TO BE WATCHING FOR TODAY?
ARE YOU SEEING ANY CRACKS AND
LIKE THE REPUBLICAN RANKS AS
LEADER McCONNELL HAS LAID OUT
HOW HE WANTS HIS PROCESS TO GO?
>> Reporter: WE ARE GOING TO BE
LOOKING TO SEE WHAT MOTIONS THE
DEMOCRATS BRING UP. FIRST OF
ALL, TO SEE WHAT KIND OF VOTES
WE ARE GOING TO BE HAVING AS A
PRELIMINARY MEASURE ON QUESTIONS
ABOUT WITNESSES, QUESTIONS ABOUT
EXTERNAL DOCUMENT THAT WE ARE
NOT HAVING ON FILE. WHAT
EVIDENCE THEY CAN REVIEW AND WHO
THEY CAN HEAR FROM. I THINK WE
ARE EXPECTING TO SEE SOME
REPUBLICANS BREAK
ON THOSE VOTES IF THEY ARE MORE
GENERAL, OR IF THEY HAVE TO DO
WITH PEOPLE THAT SEEM TO BE SO
CLOSELY TIED TO THE NARRATIVE
AND EVIDENCE THAT AS YOU KNOW,
IN BLACK AND WHITE. BUT THE
QUESTION REALLY IS WHETHER THEY
ARE FOR REPUBLICANS. YOU CAN -
YOU CAN COUNT LISA MURKOWSKI.
UNLESS IT WAS A FOURTH ONE
THERE, THEY DON'T ACTUALLY HAVE
THE VOTES, THE DEMOCRATS DON'T
HAVE THE VOTES TO BE ABLE TO GET
THEIR WAY TO GO FORWARD. WE ARE
ALSO LOOKING TO SEE IF THIS ALL
PLAYS OUT IN THE OPEN. IF THEY
END UP GOING INTO CLOSED SESSION
TO HAVE SOME SORT OF DEBATE
ABOUT THIS. THESE ARE OPEN
QUESTIONS RIGHT NOW THE
DEMOCRATS WANT SETTLED AT THE
OUTSET. ABOUT REPUBLICANS AND
SAID NO, WE'RE GOING TO GO TO
THE OPEN STAGES OF TRIAL BEFORE
WE GET TO THE SPECIFIC QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHO WE ARE GOING TO ALLOW
TO BE PART OF THIS PROCESS IN
TERMS OF WITNESSES IF ANYBODY
ELSE IS ALLOWED THERE. THERE'S
GOING TO BE A LOT OF WRANGLING
BETWEEN THE PARTIES RIGHT NOW.
JOCKEYING FOR THE SKI VOTES IN
THE MIDDLE. THAT WILL DETERMINE
WHETHER OR NOT THEY CAN SET
PARAMETERS THAT ARE A LITTLE BIT
BROADER. WHICH IS WHAT THE HOUSE
DEMOCRATS WANT AS A PRESENT THE
CASE.
>> YOU WHY?, WE KNOW WHAT LEADER
McCONNELL WANTS. AS MINORITY
LEADER SCHUMER JUST AT THE PRESS
CONFERENCE, HE WOULD NOT GIVE A
REPORTER, REPORTERS A SENSE OF
HOW MANY
AMENDMENTS THEY HAD. DEMOCRATS
ARE TRYING TO SAY WE ARE NOT
DRAWING THIS OUT. WE ARE NOT
DOING THIS TO DELAY. WE ARE
DOING THIS TO SEE IF WE CAN YOU
KNOW, MOVE SOME GROUND HERE ON
THE ISSUES WE ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT. SO, DO WE HAVE A SENSE
YET OF LIKE WHAT TODAY IS REALLY
GOING TO LOOK LIKE IN TERMS OF
TIMING AND PROCEDURE?
>> Reporter: I THINK ALL OF US
ARE RACING FOR POTENTIALLY
LATE-NIGHT EVEN THOUGH AS YOU
POINTED OUT, SENATOR SCHUMER IS
TRYING TO INDICATE IF THIS GOES
LATEST
NOT BECAUSE IT'S A DELAYING
TACTIC BUT BECAUSE DEMOCRATS ARE
TRYING TO PUSH APPOINTIVE OPEN
THIS UP SO THEY CAN GET THE
WITNESSES THEY WANT TO BE PART
OF THE PROCESS. WE DON'T KNOW
EXACTLY HOW MANY MOTIONS THEY
ARE GOING TO RAISE, ALTHOUGH IT
IS PROBABLY NOT GOING TO BE AN
INFANT NUMBER BECAUSE YOU START
TO LOSE YOUR AUDIENCE OF THAT
POINT. WE DON'T REALLY KNOW
WHERE THIS IS GOING TO ALL BE
HASHED OUT AND FULLY DEBATED,
GIVEN THE LIMITATIONS ON WHAT
SENATORS CAN AND CAN'T SAY
DURING THE REGULAR PROCEEDINGS
ON THE FLOOR. THEY'RE SUPPOSED
TO BE KEEPING THEIR OWN COUNSEL
FOR THE MOST PART UNLESS THERE
ARE SPECIFIC MOTIONS RACE THAT
REQUIRE A VOTE. SO, I THINK THIS
IS ALL GOING TO BE A LITTLE BIT
AND PLAY DEPENDING ON HOW THE
PRELIMINARY AND THE OPENING
MOVES WORK. WE WILL SEE MORE
, IT DEPENDS ON IF DEMOCRATS
FEEL LIKE THEY HAVE THE WIND AT
THE BACKS BASICALLY WHEN THIS
BEGINS. AND IS MUCH AS WE ARE
STARTING AND YOU KNOW, THE WHOLE
PROCESS IN ABOUT ANOTHER HOUR,
WE ARE GOING TO BE SEEING THESE
DISCUSSIONS GO ON INTENSELY SO
THAT PEOPLE CAN FIGURE OUT
WHETHER THERE ACTUALLY IS ANY
SORT OF DEALMAKING TO BE DONE
HERE. AS MUCH AS SENATORS ARE
GOING TO BE ON THE FLOOR, KIND
OF LOCKED INTO THE TRIAL
PROCESS, THESE DISCUSSIONS ARE
GOING TO CONTINUE IN LARGE PART
BETWEEN STAFFERS AND OTHERS IF
THEY HASH OUT EXACTLY WHAT YOU
KNOW, THE FORMAL LANGUAGE WILL
LOOK LIKE AS IT GETS TO THE
FLOOR. AND I DON'T THINK WE HAVE
AN EXACT TIME SENSE RIGHT NOW
HOW LONG THIS WILL GO THIS
EVENING, BUT I THINK WE ARE
BRACING FOR THIS WHOLE WEEK,
REALLY. BETWEEN THE MOTION
TONIGHT AND THE 24 HOURS
CONDENSED INTO TWO DAYS. EACH
RULE THAT THE REPUBLICANS ARE
PUSHING FOR THE ARGUMENTS FROM
EITHER SIDE, WE ARE LOOKING AT
MIDNIGHT, 1 AM OR LATER. FOR AN
OPENING WEEK OF THIS TRIAL.
>> OKAY. SO, AS WE ALL BRACE FOR
THESE LONG DAYS AND LONG NIGHTS,
CAN YOU TALK TO WAS A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT YOUR COVERAGE ABILITIES?
MUCH HAS BEEN MADE, THERE IS A
LOT OF CONCERN OVER JUST HOW
MUCH ACCESS JOURNALISTS WILL
HAVE TO MEMBERS OF THE SENATE.
BECAUSE, YOU GUYS HAVE BEEN LIKE
PUSHED TO THE SIDE. YOU ARE
LIMITED IN HOW YOU CAN ACCESS
SENATORS. YOU CAN'T EVEN BRING
DEVICES INTO CERTAIN AREAS. SO,
AND YOU TAKE US THROUGH WHERE
THAT FIGHT IS AT RIGHT NOW?
>> Reporter: WELL, THE DEVICE
HAS ALWAYS BEEN THE ROLE OF THE
SENATE THAT YOU CAN'T
BRING CELL PHONES, COMPUTERS,
THINGS LIKE THAT INTO THE
CHAMBER. AS MUCH AS PEOPLE WERE
HOPING THAT MY CHANGE FOR
IMPEACHMENT, GIVEN THE
UP-TO-THE-MINUTE COVERAGE THAT
WE ALL WANT TO DO, IT HAS NOT.
SO, WE WILL BE ON THE SAME BOAT
AS THE SENATORS WHEN WE ARE
ACTUALLY IN THE ROOM OVERLOOKING
THE GALLERY, FROM THE GALLERY TO
THE FLOOR. BUT WE HAVE TO DO A
LITTLE BIT OF FAST-MOVING AND
PURE WEDDING AROUND THE CAPITAL,
MORE SO THAN USUAL. THEY HAVE
BEEN RESTRICTIONS PUT IN VARIOUS
HALLWAYS THAT WE NORMALLY WALK
THROUGH WITH THE SENATORS TO GET
THE THOUGHTS ON WHAT'S HAPPENING
ON REGULAR POLICY DAYS. THAT'S
JUST AS VITAL RIGHT NOW, GIVEN
THE FACT THAT WE ARE ABOUT TO BE
IN THE MIDST OF AN IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL. BUT, WE ARE BASICALLY
BLOCKED OFF FROM CERTAIN PARTS
OF THE 2nd FOUR, THE FIRST NIGHT
OR, AT A NORMAL ROUTE FOLLOWING
SENATORS UP TO UP THE ROUTE FROM
THE BASEMENT
WHICH REQUIRES A LITTLE EXTRA
DANCING AND TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHERE PEOPLE HAVE TO EVENTUALLY
END UP IF WE CAN CATCH THEM IN
THE NORMAL PROCESS OF WHERE THEY
ARE WALKING. THIS SORT OF, YOU
KNOW, THE
I GUESS THE BLUEPRINTS OF ALL OF
THIS, THE GEOGRAPHY OF ALL THIS
MATTERS JUST BECAUSE A LOT OF
THE ORIGINAL REPORTING YOU ARE
ABLE TO DO FOR THINGS THAT MOVE
IN REAL TIME AND MOVE QUICKLY ON
THE FLOOR, LIKE AN IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL, IS IN BEING ABLE TO
CORNER CERTAIN PEOPLE AND GET
THE REALLY CANDID, IN THE MOMENT
RESPONSES. THAT'S GOING TO BE A
LITTLE BIT MORE DIFFICULT NOW
GIVEN THE RESTRICTIONS ON WHERE
WE ARE ABLE TO GO THAT THE
SENATORS ARE GOING TO BE WALKING
THROUGH THAT WE CAN GET TO.
>> YOU MAKE A GREAT POINT
OBVIOUSLY. YOU CANNOT BRING YOUR
DEVICES INTO THAT AREA BUT THAT
- THERE'S A MAGNETOMETER IN
THERE TO MAKE SURE YOU DON'T
SNEAK EVERYTHING IN THE
EVERYTHING IS LOCKDOWN, WHICH
SEEMS LIKE ANOTHER LAYER OF
LIGHT PROCESS, AND EFFORT FOR
THE REPORTERS TO HAVE TO GO TO
TO BE ABLE TO WATCH THE
PROCEEDINGS.
>> IT IS ANOTHER LAYER OF
PROCESS. CERTAINLY, LOOK, THE
ENERGY OF THE IMAGE OF HAVING
THAT MAGNETOMETER
, IN ANY CASE, THE MANAGERS OF
THE GALLERY WILL PULL YOU OUT OF
THE GALLERY AND DENIAL YOUR
ABILITY TO STAY THERE IF THEY
CATCH YOU WITH A PHONE. WHEN I
WAS A VERY YOUNG REPORTER I DID
MAKE THAT MISTAKE ONCE. I DON'T
THINK THE SEASONED REPORTERS ARE
LIKELY TO MAKE IT AGAIN BUT THEY
ARE EXPECTING BASICALLY
EVERYBODY ON THEIR UNCLE TO BE
HERE FROM THE MEDIA. I THINK A
LOT OF THE STEPS ARE BEING TAKEN
WITH THE FEAR THAT MAYBE PEOPLE
WHO ARE FAMILIAR WITH THE RULES
OF THE CAPITAL AND HOW THINGS GO
GENERALLY, WILL START TO TRY TO
BREAK THEM. BUT IN THE PROCESS,
AS YOU POINTED OUT, BECAUSE THE
PLANS ARE BEING MADE TO KIND OF
GUARD AGAINST THAT LEASE,
DENOMINATOR OF WHAT IF SOMETHING
GOES WRONG OR SOMEBODY IS NOT
USED TO. FOR THOSE OF US WERE
VERY USED TO IT, THE WEB THESE
THINGS ARE BEING WORKED, WE ARE
BEING BLOCKED AND HELD BACK
WHICH COULD COMPROMISE OUR
ABILITY TO DO THIS REPORTED
QUICKLY. WE ARE VERY, WE PRIDE
OURSELVES ON OUR INGENUITY AND
KNOWING THE BACK CALLS OF THIS
PLACE AS MUCH AS WE DO IN
FINDING SOME SORT OF WAY TO WORK
AROUND AND FIND IT SO EVEN WHEN
THEY A VEDAS IN A NORMAL
SITUATION, IN THIS, YOU HAVE GOT
BARRIERS PUT UP THAT WE ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO FIND A WAY TO
WORK AROUND IN ADDITION OVER THE
NEXT WEEK OR TWO AS THIS GOES
ON.
>> FINALLY, YOU WILL BE ABLE TO
GO AND SIT IN AND WATCH THE
PROCEEDINGS WHEN IT IS OPEN,
WHEN IT IS NOT LOCKDOWN. WHICH
IS REALLY IMPORTANT TO US
BECAUSE WE ARE ONLY GOING TO
HAVE ONE CAMERA THAT IS
CONTROLLED BY THE SENATE TO GIVE
US THE FOOTAGE FROM THE FLOOR.
SO, IT'S NOT LIKE THERE ARE
MULTIPLE CAMERAS
. C-SPAN AND OTHERS HAVE FOUGHT
TO GET MORE ACCESS AND PICK UP
SO WE WILL REALLY BE RELYING ON
YOU AND YOUR COLLEAGUES TO TELL
US, WHAT WERE THE REACTIONS ON
SENATORS BASIS? WERE USING SOME
TELLING SIGN OF HOW THEY WERE
INTERPRETING THE INFORMATION
THAT THEY ARE GIVEN.
>>
>> Reporter: THAT'S REALLY WHERE
WE HAVE THE BEST VIEW. FICA FROM
OUR VANTAGE POINT, WHERE THE
PRESS EATS ARE INSIDE THE
CHAMBER, WE CAN'T REALLY SEE
JOHN ROBERTS BECAUSE HE IS KIND
OF DIRECTLY BELOW IS. SO, WE
HAVE THE BEST VIEW OF THE FACES
OF THE LISTENING SENATORS AS
THEY ARE SEATED THEIR
KIND OF SEMI CIRCLE ARRANGEMENT
AND SEE WHAT THEY ARE SAYING AND
DOING. AND IF THEY ARE PAYING
CLOSE ATTENTION OR TAKING NOTES
OR YAWNING OR ANYTHING ELSE LIKE
THAT. AND READING FACES LIKE
THAT COULD BE IMPORTANT. AND
ANYBODY WAS WHAT'S THE STATE OF
THE UNION CAN ATTEST, SOMETIMES
IT IS THE REACTION OF THE
AUDIENCE THAT MATTERS AS MUCH AS
A SPEECH GOING ON FROM THE
PODIUM. SO, THAT IS ONE THING WE
WILL BE ABLE TO, OR WE WILL BE
HAVING TO TELL IN THE
DESCRIPTORS WORDS AS WE CAN
MUSTER. AS THE DAY GOES THROUGH,
WHAT IS HAPPENING, WHAT IS SEEN
IN ADDITION TO THE WORDS SAID
THAT EVERYONE WILL BE SEEN FROM
THE FIXED, FOCUSING ON THE
PERSON ACTUALLY GIVING THE
ARGUMENT THE TIME. BOTH - ARE
IMPORTANT. IS ALSO, LOOK, THIS
HAS BEEN THE WHOLE TIME IT IS
BEEN A TRIAL THAT IS GOING TO
KIND A BIT WOODHOUSE DEMOCRATIC
MANAGERS, THE CASES THEY WANT TO
MAKE AGAINST THE PRESIDENT AND
HIS SUPPORTERS, THE CASEY WANT
TO PUSH BACK. THE SENATE IS THE
JURY TO CONVINCE, BUT IT IS ALSO
PLAYING OUT IN FRONT OF THE
COUNTRY AND IT IS AN ELECTION
YEAR. YOU CANNOT DIVORCE
YOURSELF FROM THAT BACK. SO,
KIND OF BEING ABLE TO SEE ALL
PARTS OF THIS, NOT JUST WHAT IS
GOING ON FROM THE LAWYERS, BUT
ALSO, THE REPRESENTATIVES WHO
ARE SITTING THERE MAKING A
JUDGMENT I THINK, EVERYBODY
WANTS TO KNOW HOW EVERYBODY IS
REACTING IN THE MOMENT SINCE THE
ULTIMATE VERDICT ON IT IS GOING
TO BE VOTERS. MORE CLOSELY
TOWARD THE END OF THE END OF
DECIDING HOW THEY THINK OTHER
TRIAL IS PLAYED OUT ANOTHER
SATISFIED WITH THE VERDICT.
>> KAROUN DEMIRJIAN, THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR JOINING US. NATALIE
JENNINGS STILL WITH US. SENIOR
EDITOR FOR THE FIX. AND ALSO
COLBY - CONGRESSIONAL REPORTING
REPORTER. CALL THE 2020 RACE.
THIS IS NATALIE. YOU HAVE THIS
GREAT STORY COLBY ABOUT -
SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS AND HOW
MUCH PRESSURE SHE IS FIELDING
TO GET ON TEAM YOU KNOW,
WHATEVER YOUR SIDE IS. TELL US
ABOUT HOW SENATORS ARE TRYING TO
REACH OUT TO HER AND WHAT
POSITION SHE AND OTHERS LIKE HER
ARE PUT IN.
>> Reporter: SO, SUSAN COLLINS
IS A REALLY DIFFICULT REELECTION
RACE COMING UP. THERE IS A TON
OF ACTIVISTS THAT WERE MOBILIZED
AFTER HER VOTE FOR BRETT
KAVANAGH. A LOT OF ANGER FROM
THE LEFT DIRECTED AT SUSAN
COLLINS -
>> SHE BETTER TO CONFIRM BRETT
KAVANAGH.
>> THIS IS A SENATOR THEY CAN
OFTEN COUNT ON TO VOTE FOR THEM
FOR REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS. THEY
SAW HER AS AN ALLY ON THE SOCIAL
ISSUES. AND THAT SHE VOTED FOR
KAVANAGH. AND IT ALL KIND OF
COMBUSTED FOR HER. IT WON HER
THE FAVORITE PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
THE LEADERSHIP IN HER OWN CAUCUS
. THE DEMOCRATS WERE VERY ANGRY.
NOW COMES THIS IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL. AND THEY LOOK BACK AT HER
AND SAID, WHAT YOU GONNA DO?
RECITER YOU ON? SO FAR, SHE HAS
TOWED THE PARTY LINE AND SAID
YOU KNOW, I AM NOT GOING TO VOTE
WITH DEMOCRATS TO CALL WITNESSES
BEFORE EVER THE ARGUMENT. I WILL
LIKELY SUPPORT WITNESSES AFTER
WE HAVE FOR THE ARGUMENT. BUT
EVEN THEN I CANNOT SAY WHICH
WITNESSES I WOULD BE SUPPORTIVE
OF HEARING FROM. IT MIGHT BE
, IT COULD BE HUNTER BIDEN, IT
COULD BE HUNTER BIDEN IN
ADDITION TO PEOPLE LIKE JOHN
BOLTON AND MICK MULVANEY. SO,
THAT IS THE TENSION THAT SHE IS
FEELING. AND, CURRENTLY, I AM
TOLD THAT OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL
THERE IS A MASSIVE TRUCK, A
BILLBOARD TRUCK WITH A VIDEO OF
HER GIVING SPEECHES IN 1999
DURING THE CLINTON IMPEACHMENT,
VERSUS THING SHE SAID NOW. FAIR
APPARENTLY IN 1999, SHE WAS MUCH
MORE SUPPORTIVE OF EVIDENCE AND
WITNESSES UPFRONT.
>> OKAY. WE HAVE BEEN HEARING
FROM PRESIDENT TRUMP. HE IS IN
SWITZERLAND TODAY FOR THE WORLD
ECONOMIC FORUM. LET'S LISTEN TO
RESIDENT TRUMP TALK ABOUT WHAT
IS HAPPENING BACK IN WASHINGTON
AND SPECIFICALLY THE IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL.
>> THAT WHOLE THING IS A HOAX.
IT GOES NOWHERE BECAUSE NOTHING
HAPPENED. THE ONLY THING WE HAVE
DONE IS A GREAT JOB. WE EVEREST
THE STRONGEST COUNTRY IN THE
WORLD BY FAR. IT WAS GOING IN
THE WRONG DIRECTION. WE HAVE THE
GREATEST ECONOMY WE HAVE EVER
HAD IN THE HISTORY OF OUR
COUNTRY. AND I AM IN EUROPE
TODAY BECAUSE WE ARE BRINGING A
LOT OF OTHER COMPANIES INTO OUR
COUNTRY WITH THOUSANDS OF JOBS,
MILLIONS OF JOBS IN
COMMUNICATIONS. SO,
THAT WHOLE THING IS A TOTAL
HOAX. SO, I'M SURE IT'S GOING TO
WORK OUT FINE.
>> NOW JOINING US FROM DABO -
SWITZERLAND, OUR COLLEAGUE WHO
IS TRAVELING IN AS THE
PRESIDENT'S ENTOURAGE. HE IS
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP FOR THIS
DABO'S EVENT. TO LOU, HOW IS
PRESIDENT TRUMP FOCUS ON THE
ISSUES HAPPENING IN TOPLESS
VERSUS WHAT'S HAPPENING BACK IN
WASHINGTON ARE NOW.
>> WELL, THE PRESIDENT HAS TRIED
TO FOCUS ON THE ECONOMY. YES TRY
TO TOUT HIS ECONOMIC RECORD.
EARLIER TODAY HE WAS ONE OF THE
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS AND HE DID NOT
TALK ABOUT IMPEACHMENT DURING
HIS SPEECH. HE TALKED ABOUT THE
ECONOMY AND HOW HE BELIEVES HE
HAS DONE SUCH A GREAT JOB FOR
THE GLOBAL ECONOMY IN THE U.S.
ECONOMY BACK FROM THE BRINK OF
YOU KNOW, RECEPTION RECESSION
AND DOWNTURNS. BUT WHENEVER
FACED WITH WESTERNS FROM
REPORTERS,
IT INEVITABLY TURNS BACK TO
IMPEACHMENT I HAVE SPENT A LOT
OF TIME ANSWERING QUESTIONS,
ENGAGING WITH REPORTERS AND NOT
PIVOTING RIGHT BACK TO THE
ECONOMY
AND THE MESSAGE, BUT REALLY
ENGAGING WITH THE IDEA OF
IMPEACHMENT, CALLING IT HOAX.
SHOWING THAT HE IS FOLLOWING
WHAT IS HAPPENING BACK IN
WASHINGTON. THAT HE IS ENGAGED,
EVEN HIS SPOKESPERSON SAID THAT
EVEN THOUGH WE HAVE THE FULL DAY
HERE IN THE OFFICE, HE WILL BE
BRIEFED THROUGHOUT THE DAY BY
HIS ADVISORS ABOUT WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN WASHINGTON WHEN IT
COMES TO THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL.
SO, THE PRESIDENT IS TRYING TO
JUGGLE HIS RESPONSIBILITIES ARE
AND OFFICE, BUT IT IS TRUE THAT
IMPEACHMENT IS ON HIS MIND.
>> OKAY, SO,
TOLUSE OLORUNNIPA, WHAT IS HIS
MOOD, HIS TONE OF HOW HE IS
TALKING ABOUT THIS. WHAT ARE YOU
GETTING A SENSE OF HOW HE IS
FEELING?
>> HE SEEMS FRUSTRATED, HE'S
BEEN FRUSTRATED THROUGHOUT THE
PROCESS. BUT WHENEVER HE TRIES
TO DO SOMETHING AS PRESIDENT, IT
ALWAYS COMES BACK TO SCANDAL AND
THIS IDEA OF WHAT HE CALLS A
HOAX. IN THIS IDEA THAT HE IS
BEING IMPEACHED. SO, HE IS
FRUSTRATED HE IS NOT ABLE TO
FOCUS ON WHAT HE BELIEVES IS A
STRONG ECONOMIC MESSAGE AND THAT
IT'S ABOUT YOU KNOW, THE
STRENGTH OF THE U.S. ECONOMY.
HE'S GOING TO BE MEETING WITH
DIFFERENT CEOS. BUT, THE FACT
THAT HE GETS QUESTIONS FROM
REPORTERS ABOUT - ABOUT
IMPEACHMENT, ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT HE SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM
OFFICE, IT IS FRUSTRATING FOR
HIM AND YOU HEAR THAT AS HE
ANSWERS THESE QUESTIONS. HE
CALLS IT A HOAX IN WHICH ON.
EVEN THOUGH HE'S MEETING WITH
THESE DIGNIFIED LEADERS, HE GOES
DIRECTLY INTO SORT OF HIS NORMAL
AMERICAN POLITICAL DOMESTIC
LANDSCAPE LANGUAGE. AND EVEN
THOUGH WERE FAR AWAY ON FOREIGN
SOIL, THE PRESIDENT IS
COMPLETELY ENGAGING IN HIS
TYPICAL REELECTION CAMPAIGN
STYLE
ANTICS AND DISCUSSIONS.
ESPECIALLY WHEN THE ISSUE OF
IMPEACHMENT COMES UP.
>> TOLUSE OLORUNNIPA TRAVELING
WITH THE PRESIDENT IN
SWITZERLAND. THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR TALKING TO US. NATALIE AND
COLBY, BEFORE WE LET YOU GUYS
GET BACK TO YOUR DESKS,  THIS IS
A MOMENT PRESIDENT TRUMP WOULD
LOVE IS TO BE FOCUSED ON
EVERYTHING ELSE HE'S BEEN
WORKING ON THIS PAST WEEK. CHINA
TRADE. THE NEW NORTH AMERICAN
TRADE AGREEMENT. EVEN ON FRIDAY
HE WAS TALKING ABOUT PRAYER IN
SCHOOLS. BUT, HE HAS ALSO GOT
THIS TEAM OF DEFENDERS
. BOTH INSIDE THE SENATE
CHAMBER. THE ATTORNEYS WHO WILL
BE REPRESENTING HIM AND ALSO ARE
GOING OUT TO FOX NEWS AND
EVERYPLACE ELSE TO TRY TO DEFEND
HIM VOCALLY OVER THE NEXT COUPLE
OF DAYS. SO, THERE ARE TWO
AGENDAS HERE BY THE WHITE HOUSE.
>> YES. ALL OF THEM ARE SERVED
BETTER BY THIS TRIAL BEING AS
SHORT AS HIS LAWYERS AND MITCH
McCONNELL WOULD LIKE IT TO BE.
SO, THE SOONER THAT HAPPENS, THE
SOONER HE CAN GO OUT ON THE
CAMPAIGN TRAIL WITH MORE OF A
FOCUS ON WHAT HE WANTS TO TALK
ABOUT. THAT'S NOT TO SAY HE
WON'T KEEP BRINGING THIS UP IF
HE FEELS LIKE IT'S ADVANTAGEOUS
POLITICALLY FOR HIM TO SAY THAT
DEMOCRATS ARE RUNNING A POOR
PROSECUTION HERE. BUT ALL OF
THAT GOES BACK TO HIM BEING ABLE
TO DRIVE THE AGENDA IN THIS
ELECTION YEAR, WHICH WE ARE
OFFICIALLY IN.
>> COLBY, WE DID GET A SENSE OF
HOW DEMOCRATS PLAN TO MOUNT
THEIR PART OF THE TRIAL OVER THE
WEEKEND. YOU WERE COMBING
THROUGH LIKE THIS VOLUMINOUS
RELEASE. LEADER McCONNELL IS ON
THE SENATE FLOOR FOR OPENING
REMARKS.
>>> OUR SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT. WE
BEGAN JUST THE THIRD
PRESIDENTIAL IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
IN AMERICAN HISTORY. THIS IS A
UNIQUE RESPONSIBILITY WHICH THE
FRAMERS OF OUR CONSTITUTION KNEW
THAT THE SENATE AND ONLY THE
SENATE COULD HANDLE. OUR
FOUNDERS TRUSTED THE SENATE TO
RISE ABOVE SHORT-TERM PASSIONS
AND FACTIONALISM. THEY TRUSTED
THE SENATE TO SOBERLY CONSIDER
WHAT HAS ACTUALLY BEEN PROVEN
AND WHICH OUTCOME BEST SERVES
THE NATION. THAT'S A PRETTY HIGH
BAR, MR. PRESIDENT. AND YOU
MIGHT SAY THAT LATER TODAY, THIS
BODY WILL TAKE OUR ENTRANCE
EXAM. TODAY, WE WILL CONSIDER
AND PASS AN ORGANIZING
RESOLUTION THAT WILL STRUCTURE
THE FIRST PHASE OF THE TRIAL.
THIS INITIAL STEP WILL OFFER AN
EARLY SIGNAL TO OUR COUNTRY.
CAN THE SENATE STILL SERVE OUR
FOUNDING PURPOSE?
CAN WE STILL PUT FAIRNESS,
EVENHANDEDNESS, AND HISTORICAL
PRECEDENT AHEAD OF THE PARTISAN
PASSIONS OF THE DAY? TODAY'S
VOTE WILL CONTAIN SOME ANSWERS.
THE ORGANIZING RESOLUTION WILL
PUT FORWARD ALREADY HAS THE
SUPPORT OF A MAJORITY OF THE
SENATE. THAT'S BECAUSE IT SETS
UP A STRUCTURE THAT IS FAIR,
EVENHANDED, AND TRACKS CLOSELY
WITH PAST PRESIDENTS THAT WERE
ESTABLISHED UNANIMOUSLY.
AFTER PRETRIAL BUSINESS, THE
RESOLUTION ESTABLISHES THE FOUR
THINGS THAT NEED TO HAPPEN NEXT.
FIRST, THE SENATE WILL HEAR AN
OPENING PRESENTATION FROM THE
HOUSE MANAGERS. SECOND, WE WILL
HEAR FROM THE PRESIDENT'S
COUNSEL.
THIRD, SENATORS WILL BE ABLE TO
SEEK FURTHER INFORMATION ABOUT
POSING WRITTEN QUESTIONS TO
EITHER SIDE THROUGH THE CHIEF
JUSTICE. AND FORTH,
WITH ALL THAT INFORMATION IN
HAND, THE SENATE WILL CONSIDER
IF WE FEEL WHETHER ANY
ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE OR WITNESSES
ARE NECESSARY TO EVALUATE
WHETHER THE HOUSE CASE HAS
CLEARED OR FAILED TO CLEAR THE
HIGH BAR OF OVERCOMING THE
PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE AND
UNDOING A DEMOCRATIC ELECTION.
THE SENATE'S FAIR PROCESS WILL
DRAW SHORT CONTRAST WITH UNFAIR
AND PRESIDENT BREAKING INQUIRY
THAT WAS CARRIED ON BY THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES. THE HOUSE
BROKE WITH PRECEDENT BY DENYING
MEMBERS OF THE REPUBLICAN
MINORITY THE SAME RIGHTS THAT
DEMOCRATS HAVE RECEIVED WHEN
THEY WERE IN THE MINORITY BACK
IN 1998.
HERE IN THE SENATE, EVERY SINGLE
SENATOR WILL HAVE EXACTLY THE
SAME RIGHTS AND EXACTLY THE SAME
ABILITY TO ASK QUESTIONS. THE
HOUSE BROKE WITH FAIRNESS BY
CAUSING CUTTING PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S COUNSEL OUT OF THE
INQUIRY TO AN UNPRECEDENTED
DEGREE. HERE IN THE SENATE, THE
PRESIDENT'S LAWYERS WILL FINALLY
RECEIVE A LEVEL PLAYING FIELD
WITH THE HOUSE DEMOCRATS. AND
WILL FINALLY BE ABLE TO RESENT
THE PRESIDENT'S CASE. FINALLY,
SOME FAIRNESS.
ON EVERY POINT, OUR
STRAIGHTFORWARD RESOLUTION WILL
BRING THE CLARITY AND FAIRNESS
THAT EVERYONE DESERVES. THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. THIS IS
THE FAIR ROADMAP FOR OUR TRIAL.
WE NEEDED IN PLACE BEFORE WE CAN
MOVE FORWARD. SO, THE SENATE
SHOULD REPAIR TO REMAIN IN
SESSION TODAY UNTIL WE COMPLETE
THIS RESOLUTION. AND ADOPTED.
'S BASIC FOUR-PART STRUCTURE
ALIGNS WITH THE FIRST STEPS OF
THE CLINTON IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IN
1999.
21 YEARS AGO, 100 SENATORS
AGREED UNANIMOUSLY THAT THIS
ROADMAP WAS THE RIGHT WAY TO
BEGIN THE TRIAL. ALL 100
SENATORS AGREED THE PROPER TIME
TO CONSIDER THE QUESTION OF
POTENTIAL WITNESSES WAS AFTER,
AFTER OPENING ARGUMENTS AND
SENATORS QUESTIONS. NOW, SOME
OUTSIDE VOICES HAVE BEEN URGING
THE SENATE TO BREAK WITH
PRECEDENT ON THIS QUESTION. LOUD
VOICES. INCLUDING THE LEADERSHIP
OF THE HOUSE MAJORITY. COLLUDED
WITH SENATE DEMOCRATS AND TRIED
TO FORCE THE DEMO THE SENATE TO
PRE-COMMIT OURSELVES TO SEEK
SPECIFIC WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS
BEFORE SENATORS HAD EVEN HEARD
OPENING ARGUMENTS OR EVEN ASKED
QUESTIONS.
THESE ARE POTENTIAL WITNESSES,
MR. PRESIDENT, WHOM THE HOUSE
MANAGERS THEMSELVES, THEMSELVES
DECLINED TO HEAR FROM, WHOM THE
HOUSE ITSELF DECLINED TO PURSUE
THROUGH THE LEGAL SYSTEM DURING
ITS OWN INQUIRY. THE HOUSE IS
NOT FACING ANY DEADLINE. THEY
WERE FREE TO RUN WHATEVER
INVESTIGATION THEY WANTED TO
RUN. IF THEY WANTED WITNESSES,
WHO WOULD TRIGGER LEGAL BATTLES
OVER PRESIDENTIAL PRIVILEGE,
THEY COULD'VE HAD THOSE FIGHTS.
BUT THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE AND THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE DECIDED NOT TO. THEY
DECIDED THEIR INQUIRY WAS
FINISHED, AND MOVED RIGHT AHEAD.
THE HOUSE CHOSE NOT TO PURSUE
THE SAME WITNESSES THEY
APPARENTLY WOULD NOW LIKE, WOULD
NOW LIKE THE SENATE TO
PRE-COMMIT TO PURSUING
OURSELVES. AS I HAVE BEEN SAYING
FOR WEEKS, NOBODY, NOBODY, WE'LL
DIG TAKE SENATE
PROCEDURE TO UNITED STATES
SENATORS. A MAJORITY OF US ARE
COMMITTED TO UPHOLDING THE
UNANIMOUS, BIPARTISAN CLINTON
PRECEDENT AGAINST OUTSIDE
INFLUENCES WITH RESPECT TO THE
PROPER TIMING OF THESE MID-TRIAL
QUESTIONS. AND SO, IF ANY
AMENDMENTS ARE BROUGHT FORWARD
TO FORCE PREMATURE DECISIONS ON
MID-TRIAL QUESTIONS, I WILL MOVE
TO TABLE SUCH AMENDMENTS AND
PROTECT OUR BIPARTISAN
PRECEDENT.
IF THE SENATOR MOVES TO AMEND
THE RESOLUTION AND ORDER
SUBPOENA SPECIFIC WITNESSES OR
DOCUMENTS, I WILL MOVE TO TABLE
SUCH MOTIONS BECAUSE THE SENATE
WILL DECIDE THOSE QUESTIONS
LATER IN THE TRIAL, JUST LIKE WE
DID BACK IN 1999.
NOW, MR. PRESIDENT, TODAY MAY
PRESENT A CURIOUS SITUATION.
WE MAY HEAR HOUSE MANAGERS
THEMSELVES AGITATE FOR SUCH
AMENDMENTS.
WE MAY HEAR A TEAM OF MANAGERS
LED BY THE HOUSE INTELLIGENCE
AND JUDICIARY COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
ARGUE THAT THE SENATE MUST
PRE-COMMIT OURSELVES TO REOPEN
THE VERY INVESTIGATION THEY
THEMSELVES OVERSAW AND
VOLUNTARILY SHUT DOWN.
IT WOULD BE CURIOUS TO HEAR
THESE TWO HOUSE CHAIRMAN ARGUE
THAT THE SENATE MUST PRE-COMMIT
OURSELVES TO SUPPLEMENTING THEIR
OWN EVIDENTIARY RECORD TO
ENFORCING SUBPOENAS THEY REFUSED
TO ENFORCE
. TO SUPPLEMENT A CASE THEY
THEMSELVES HAVE RECENTLY
DESCRIBED AS OVERWHELMING.
OVERWHELMING. AND BEYOND ANY
REASONABLE DOUBT.
MR. PRESIDENT, THESE MID-TRIAL
QUESTIONS COULD POTENTIALLY TAKE
US EVEN DEEPER INTO EVEN MORE
COMPLEX CONSTITUTIONAL WATERS.
FOR EXAMPLE, MANY SENATORS,
INCLUDING ME, HAVE SERIOUS
CONCERNS ABOUT BLURRING,
BLURRING THE TRADITIONAL ROLE
BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE SENATE
WITHIN THE IMPEACHMENT PROCESS.
THE CONSTITUTION DIVIDES
THE POWER TO IMPEACH FROM THE
POWER TO TRY. THE FIRST BELONGS
SOLELY TO THE HOUSE. AND WITH
THE POWER TO IMPEACH COMES A
RESPONSIBILITY TO INVESTIGATE.
THE SENATE AGREEING TO PICK UP
AND CARRY ON THE HOUSE IS AN
ADEQUATE INVESTIGATION WOULD SET
A NEW PRECEDENT THAT COULD
INCENTIVIZE FREQUENT AND HAZY
IMPEACHMENTS
FROM FUTURE HOUSE MAJORITIES.
COULD DRAMATICALLY CHANGE THE
SEPARATION OF POWERS BETWEEN THE
HOUSE AND THE SENATE AT THE
SENATE AGREES WE WILL CONDUCT
BOTH THE INVESTIGATION AND THE
TRIAL. OF AN IMPEACHMENT. WHAT'S
MORE,
SOME OF THE PROPOSED NEW
WITNESSES INCLUDE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH OFFICIALS WHOSE
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT AND WITH OTHER
EXECUTIVE BRANCH OFFICIALS LIE
AT THE VERY CORE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S CONSTITUTIONAL
PRIVILEGE.
PURSUING THOSE WITNESSES COULD
INDEFINITELY DELAY THE SENATE
TRIAL AND DRAW OUR BODY INTO A
PROTRACTED AND COMPLEX LEGAL
FIGHT OVER PRESENT PRESIDENTIAL
PRIVILEGE. SUCH LITIGATION COULD
POTENTIALLY HAVE PERMANENT
WREAKED REPERCUSSIONS FOR THE
SEPARATION OF POWERS
AND THE INSTITUTIONAL PRESIDENCY
THAT SENATORS WOULD NEED TO
CONSIDER VERY, VERY CAREFULLY.
SO, MR. PRESIDENT, THE SENATE IS
NOT ABOUT TO RUSH INTO THESE
WEIGHTY QUESTIONS WITHOUT
DISCUSSION
, AND WITHOUT DELIBERATION.
WITHOUT EVEN HEARING OPENING
ARGUMENTS FOR US.
THERE WERE GOOD REASONS WHY 100
OUT OF 100 SENATORS AGREED TO
DECADES AGO TO CROSS THESE
BRIDGES WHEN WE CAME TO THEM.
THAT IS WHAT WE WILL DO THIS
TIME AS WELL. FAIR IS FAIR. THE
PROCESS WAS GOOD ENOUGH FOR
PRESIDENT CLINTON. AND BASIC
FAIRNESS DICTATES IT OUGHT TO BE
GOOD ENOUGH FOR THIS PRESIDENT
AS WELL. SO, ON THE EYES ARE ON
THE SENATE. THE COUNTRY IS
WATCHING TO SEE IF WE CAN RISE
TO THE OCCASION.
21 YEARS AGO, 100 SENATORS,
INCLUDING A NUMBER OF US WHO SIT
IN THE CHAMBER TODAY, DID JUST
THAT. THE BODY OF, THE BODY
PROVED TO
FAIR, COMMON SENSE PROCESS TO
GUIDE THE BEGINNING OF A
PRESIDENTIAL IMPEACHMENT TRIAL.
TODAY, TWO DECADES LATER, THE
SENATE WILL RETAKE THAT ENTRANCE
EXAM. THE BASIC STRUCTURE WE ARE
PROPOSING IS JUST AS EMINENTLY
FAIR AND EVENHANDED
AS IT WAS BACK THEN. THE
QUESTION IS WHETHER SENATORS
ARE, THEMSELVES, READY TO BE AS
FAIR AND AS EVENHANDED.
>> THE SENATE MADE A STATEMENT
21 YEARS AGO. WE SAID THE
PRESENCE OF EITHER PARTY
DESERVED BASIC JUSTICE AND FAIR
PROCESS. CHALLENGING POLITICAL
MOMENT LIKE TODAY DOES NOT MAKE
SUCH STATEMENTS LESS NECESSARY.
ALL THE MORE NECESSARY, IN FACT.
SO, OUTSIDE OF MY COLLEAGUES
ACROSS THE AISLE, THERE IS NO
REASON WHY THE VOTE ON THIS
RESOLUTION NOT TO BE REMOTELY
PARTISAN. THERE IS NO REASON,
OTHER THAN BASE PARTISANSHIP TO
SAY THIS PARTICULAR PRESIDENT
DESERVES A RADICALLY DIFFERENT
RULEBOOK THAN WHAT WAS GOOD
ENOUGH FOR A PAST PRESIDENT OF
YOUR OWN PARTY. SO, I WOULD URGE
EVERY SINGLE SENATOR SUPPORT A
FAIR RESOLUTION. I URGE EVERYONE
TO VOTE TO UPHOLD THE SENATE'S
UNANIMOUS BIPARTISAN PRECEDENT
OF A FAIR PROCESS.
>>> DEMOCRATIC LEADER.
>> BEFORE I BEGIN,
THERE HAS BEEN WELL-FOUNDED
CONCERN THAT THE ADDITIONAL
SECURITY MEASURES REQUIRED FOR
ACCESS TO THE GALLERIES DURING
THE TRIAL COULD CAUSE REPORTERS
TO MISS SOME OF THE EVENTS ON
THE SENATE FLOOR. I WANT TO
ASSURE EVERYONE IN THE PRESS
THAT I WILL VOCIFEROUSLY OPPOSE
ANY ATTEMPT TO BEGIN THE TRIAL
UNLESS THE REPORTERS TRYING TO
ENTER THE GALLERY ARE SEATED.
THE PRESS IS HERE TO INFORM THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC ABOUT THESE
PIVOTAL EVENTS IN OUR NATIONS
HISTORY. WE MUST MAKE SURE THEY
ARE ABLE TO. SOME MAY NOT WANT
WHAT HAPPENS HERE TO BE PUBLIC.
WE DO. NOW, MR. PRESIDENT, AFTER
THE CONCLUSION OF MY REMARKS,
THE SENATE WILL PROCEED TO THE
IMPEACHMENT CHILD OF PRESIDENT
DONALD JOHN TRUMP FOR COMMITTING
HIGH CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP
IS ACCUSED OF COERCING A FOREIGN
LEADER INTO INTERFERING IN OUR
ELECTIONS. TO BENEFIT HIMSELF,
AND THEN DOING EVERYTHING IN HIS
POWER TO COVERED UP. IF PROVED,
THE PRESIDENT'S ACTIONS ARE
CRIMES AGAINST DEMOCRACY ITSELF.
IT IS HARD TO IMAGINE A GREATER
SUBVERSION OF OUR DEMOCRACY THAN
FOR POWERS OUTSIDE OUR BORDERS
TO DETERMINE THE ELECTIONS FROM
WITHIN. FOR A FOREIGN COUNTRY TO
ATTEMPT SUCH A THING ON ITS OWN
IS BAD ENOUGH. AN AMERICAN
PRESIDENT TO DELIBERATELY
SOLICIT SUCH A THING, TO
BLACKMAIL A FOREIGN COUNTRY WITH
MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO HELP HIM
WIN AN ELECTION IS UNIMAGINABLY
WORSE. I CAN'T IMAGINE ANY OTHER
PRESIDENT DOING THIS. BEYOND
THAT
, OTHER THAN THE PRESIDENT TO
DENY THE RIGHT OF CONGRESS TO
CONDUCT OVERSIGHT
, DENIED THE RIGHT TO
INVESTIGATE ANY OF HIS
ACTIVITIES. TO SAY ARTICLE 2 OF
THE CONSTITUTION GIVES HIM THE
RIGHT TO "DO WHATEVER HE WANTS."
WE ARE STARING DOWN AN EROSION
OF THE SACRED DEMOCRATIC
PRINCIPLES FOR WHICH OUR
FOUNDERS FOUGHT A BLOODIED WAR
OF INDEPENDENCE. SUCH IS THE
GRAVITY OF THIS HISTORIC MOMENT.
NOW, ONE SENATOR THIS MORNING AT
1 PM
, THE CEREMONIAL FUNCTIONS AT
THE BEGINNING OF A PRESIDENTIAL
TRIAL WILL BE COMPLETE. THE
SENATE THEN MUST DETERMINE THE
RULES OF THE TRIAL. THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER WILL OFFER AN
ORGANIZING RESOLUTION THAT
OUTLINES HIS PLAN. HIS PLAN. FOR
THE RULES OF THE TRIAL. IT IS
COMPLETELY PARTISAN. IT WAS KEPT
SECRET UNTIL THE VERY EVE OF THE
TRIAL. AND NOW THAT IT'S PUBLIC,
IT IS VERY EASY TO SEE WHY. THE
McCONNELL RULES SEEM TO BE
DESIGNED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP
MOFOR PRESIDENT TRUMP. IT ASKS
THE SENATE TO RUSH THROUGH AS
FAST AS POSSIBLE, AND MAKES
GETTING EVIDENCE AS HARD AS
POSSIBLE. GOOD FOR HIS
PRESENTATIONS TO TAKE PLACE
AT 2:00 OR 3:00 IN THE MORNING
SO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WON'T SEE
THEM. IN SHORT, McCONNELL
RESOLUTION WILL RESULT IN A
RUSHED TRIAL WITH LITTLE
EVIDENCE IN THE DARK OF NIGHT.
LITERALLY. THE DARK OF NIGHT. IF
THE PRESIDENT IS SO CONFIDENT IN
HIS CASE. IF LEADER McCONNELL IS
SO CONFIDENT THE PRESIDENT DID
NOTHING WRONG, WHY DON'T THEY
WANT THE CASE TO BE PRESENTED IN
BROAD DAYLIGHT.
ON SOMETHING AS IMPORTANT AS
IMPEACHMENT, THE McCONNELL
RESOLUTION IS NOTHING
SHORT OF A NATIONAL DISGRACE.
THIS WILL GO DOWN, THIS
RESOLUTION, AS ONE OF THE DARKER
MOMENTS IN THE SENATE HISTORY.
PERHAPS ONE OF EVEN THE DARKEST.
LEADER McCONNELL HAS JUST SAID
HE WANTS TO GO BY THE CLINTON
RULES. THEN WHY DID HE CHANGE
THEM IN FOUR IMPORTANT WAYS AT
MINIMUM? THE ALL MAKE THE TRIAL
LESS TRANSPARENT, LESS CLEAR,
AND WITLESS AS EVIDENCE. HE SAID
HE WANTED TO GET STARTED IN
EXACTLY THE SAME WAY. IT TURNS
OUT, CONTRARY TO WHAT THE LEADER
SAID, I'M AMAZED HE COULD SAY IT
WITH A STRAIGHT FACE. THAT THE
RULES ARE THE SAME AS THE
CLINTON RULES. THE RULES ARE NOT
IN CLOSE TO THE CLINTON RULES.
UNLIKE THE CLINTON RULES, THE
McCONNELL RESOLUTION DOES NOT
ADMIT THE RECORD OF THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS AND
EVIDENCE. THE LEADER WANTS A
TRIAL WITH NO EXISTING EVIDENCE
AND NO NEW EVIDENCE. A TRIAL
WITHOUT EVIDENCE IS NOT A TRIAL.
TO COVER UP.
SECOND, UNLIKE THE CLINTON
RULES, THE McCONNELL RESOLUTION
LIMITS PRESENTATION BY THE
PARTIES TO 24 HOURS PER SIDE
OVER ONLY TWO DAYS. WE START AT
1:00, 12 HOURS A DAY, 1 AM.
THAT'S WITHOUT BRAKES. IT WILL
BE LATER. LEADER McCONNELL
WANTS TO FORCE THE MANAGERS TO
MAKE IMPORTANT PARTS OF THEIR
CASE IN THE DARK OF NIGHT.
NUMBER 3, UNLIKE THE CLINTON
RULES, THE McCONNELL RESOLUTION
PLACES AN ADDITIONAL HURDLE TO
GET WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS BY
REQUIRING A VOTE ON WHETHER SUCH
MOTIONS ARE EVEN IN ORDER. IF
THAT VOTE FAILS, THEN NO MOTIONS
TO SUBPOENA WITNESSES AND
DOCUMENTS WILL BE IN ORDER. I
DON'T WANT ANYONE ON THE OTHER
SIDE TO SAY I'M GOING TO VOTE NO
FIRST
ON WITNESSES, BUT THEN LATER, I
WILL DETERMINE IF THEY VOTE FOR
McCONNELL'S RESOLUTION, THEY ARE
MAKING IT FAR MORE DIFFICULT TO
VOTE IN THE FUTURE. LATER ON IN
THE TRIAL.
>> FINALLY, UNLIKE THE CLINTON
RULES, THE McCONNELL RESOLUTION
ALLOWS THE MOTION TO DISMISS AT
ANY TIME, ANY TIME, IN THE
TRIAL. SO, IN SHORT, CONTRARY TO
WHAT THE LEADER HAS SAID,
THE McCONNELL RULES ARE NOT AT
ALL LIKE THE CLINTON RULES. THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER'S RESOLUTION
IS BASED, NEITHER IN PRECEDENT
NOR IN PRINCIPLE. IT IS DRIVEN
BY PARTISANSHIP AND THE POLITICS
OF THE MOMENT.
TODAY, I WILL BE OFFERING
AMENDMENTS TO FIX THE MANY FLAWS
IN LEADER McCONNELL'S DEEPLY
UNFAIR RESOLUTION. AND SEEK THE
WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS WE HAVE
REQUESTED. BEGINNING WITH AN
AMENDMENT TO HAVE THE SENATE
SUBPOENA WHITE HOUSE DOCUMENTS.
LET ME BE CLEAR. THESE
AMENDMENTS ARE NOT DILATORY.
THEY ONLY SEEK ONE THING. THE
TRUTH.
THAT MEANS RELEVANT DOCUMENTS.
THAT MEANS RELEVANT WITNESSES.
THAT IS THE ONLY WAY TO GET A
FAIR TRIAL. AND EVERYONE IN THIS
BODY KNOWS IT. EACH SET IT
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IN OUR HISTORY
, ALL 15 THAT WERE BROUGHT TO
COMPLETION FEATURE WITNESSES.
EVERY SINGLE ONE.
THE WITNESSES WE REQUESTED NOT
DEMOCRATS. THEY ARE THE
PRESIDENT'S OWN MEN. THE
DOCUMENTS ARE NOT DEMOCRATIC
DOCUMENTS. THEY ARE DOCUMENTS
PERIOD.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THE EVIDENCE OF
THE WITNESSES OR THE DOCUMENTS
WILL BE EXCULPATORY TO THE
PRESIDENT OR INCRIMINATING. BUT
WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION, A SOLID
ON SOLEMN OBLIGATION. ESPECIALLY
DURING THIS MOST
DEEP AND SOLEMN PART OF THE
CONSTITUTION TO SEEK THE TRUTH
AND THEN LET THE CHIPS FALL
WHERE THEY MAY. MY REPUBLICAN
COLLEAGUES HAVE OFFERED SEVERAL
EXPLANATIONS FOR OPPOSING
WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS AT THE
START OF THE TRIAL. NONE OF THEM
HAS MUCH MERIT. REPUBLICANS HAVE
SAID WE SHOULD DEAL WITH THE
QUESTION OF WITNESSES LATER IN
THE TRIAL. OF COURSE, IT MAKES
NO SENSE TO HEAR BOTH SIDES
PRESENT THEIR CASE FIRST,
AND THEN AFTERWARD THE SIDE OF
THE SENATE SHOULD HEAR EVIDENCE.
THE EVIDENCE IS SUPPOSED TO
INFORM ARGUMENTS, NOT COME AFTER
THEIR COMPLETED NEST.
SOME REPUBLICANS HAVE SAID THE
SENATE SHOULD NOT GO BEYOND
HOUSE RECORD BY CALLING ANY
WITNESSES. BUT, THE CONSTITUTION
GIVES THE SENATE THE SOLE POWER
TO TRY IMPEACHMENTS. NOT THE
SOLE POWER TO REVIEW. NOT THE
SOLE POWER TO REHASH. BUT, TO
TRY. REPUBLICANS HAVE CALLED A
REQUEST FOR WITNESSES AND
DOCUMENTS POLITICAL. SEEKING THE
TRUTH IS POLITICAL? THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY IS IN SERIOUS
TROUBLE. THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
SAID THAT THE ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT ARE BRAZEN AND
WRONG. WELL, AT THE PRESIDENT
BELIEVES IS IMPEACHMENT IS SO
BRAZEN AND WRONG, WHY WON'T HE
SHOW US WHY? WHY IS THE
PRESIDENT SO INSISTENT THAT NO
ONE COME FORWARD? THAT NO
DOCUMENTS BE RELEASED? IF THE
PRESIDENT'S CASE IS SO WEAK THAT
NONE OF THE PRESIDENT'S MEN CAN
DEFEND HIM UNDER OATH, SHAME ON
HIM. AND THOSE WHO ALLOWED TO
HAPPEN. WHAT IS THE PRESIDENT
HIDING?
WHAT ARE OUR REPUBLICAN
COLLEAGUES HIDING? BECAUSE IF
THEY WEREN'T AFRAID OF THE
TRUTH, THEY WOULD SAY GO RIGHT
AHEAD. GET AT THE TRUTH. GET
WITNESSES. GET DOCUMENTS. IN
FACT,
AT NO POINT OVER THE LAST FEW
MONTHS HAVE I HEARD A SINGLE,
SOLITARY ARGUMENT ON THE MERITS
OF WHY WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS
SHOULD NOT BE PART OF THE TRIAL.
NO REPUBLICANS EXPLAINED WHY
LESS EVIDENCE IS BETTER THAN
MORE EVIDENCE. NEVERTHELESS,
LEADER McCONNELL IS POISED TO
ASK THE SENATE TO BEGIN THE
FIRST IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF A
PRESIDENT IN HISTORY WITHOUT
WITNESSES. THAT RUSHES THROUGH
THE ARGUMENT AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE. THAT IN WAYS BOTH
SHAMELESS AND SUBTLE, WILL
CONCEAL THE TRUTH. THE TRUTH.
FROM THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. LEADER
McCONNELL CLAIMS THAT THE HOUSES
- THOROUGH AND MOST UNFAIR
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY IN MODERN
HISTORY. THE TRUTH IS, LEADER
McCONNELL IS PLOTTING THE MOST
RUSHED, LEAST THOROUGH AND MOST
UNFAIR IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IN
MODERN HISTORY. AND IT BEGINS
TODAY. THE SENATE HAS BEFORE IT
, VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD QUESTION.
THE PRESIDENT IS ACCUSED OF
COERCING A FOREIGN POWER TO
INTERFERE IN OUR ELECTIONS, TO
HELP HIMSELF. IT IS THE JOB OF
THE SENATE TO DETERMINE IF THESE
VERY SERIOUS CHARGES ARE TRUE.
THE VERY LEAST WE CAN DO
IS EXAMINE THE FACTS, REVIEW THE
DOCUMENTS, HERE THE WITNESSES,
TRY THE CASE. NOT RUN FROM IT,
NOT HIDE IT. TRY IT. BECAUSE OF
THE PRESIDENT COMMITS HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS, AND
CONGRESS REFUSES TO ACT, REFUSES
EVEN TO
CONDUCT A FAIR TRIAL OF HIS
CONDUCT, THEN PRESIDENTS, THIS
PRESIDENT AND FUTURE PRESIDENTS
CAN COMMIT IMPEACHABLE CRIMES
WITH IMPUNITY. AND THE ORDER AND
RIGOR OF OUR DEMOCRACY WILL
DRAMATICALLY DECLINE. THE
FAILSAFE, THE FINAL FAILSAFE OF
OUR DEMOCRACY WILL BE RENDERED
MOOT.
THE MOST POWERFUL CHECK ON THE
EXECUTIVE, THE ONE DESIGNED TO
PROTECT THE PEOPLE FROM TYRANNY
WILL BE ERASED. IN SHORT TIME,
MY COLLEAGUES, EACH OF US WILL
FACE A CHOICE, ABOUT WHETHER TO
BEGIN THIS TRIAL IN SEARCH OF
THE TRUTH, OR IN SERVICE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S DESIRE TO COVER IT
UP. WHETHER THE SENATE WILL
CONDUCT A FAIR TRIAL AND A FULL
AIRING OF THE FACTS, OR A RUSH
TO A PREDETERMINED POLITICAL
OUTCOME. MY COLLEAGUES, THE EYES
OF THE NATION, THE EYES OF
HISTORY, THE EYES OF THE
FOUNDING FATHERS ARE UPON US.
HISTORY WILL BE OUR FINAL JUDGE.
WILL SENATORS RISE TO THE
OCCASION? I YIELD THE FLOOR.
>>> UNDER THE PREVIOUS ORDER,
THE LEADERSHIP TIME IS RESERVED.
MORNING BUSINESS IS CLOSED.
UNDER THE PREVIOUS ORDER, THE
SENATE STANDS IN RECESS, SUBJECT
TO THE CALL OF THE CHAIR.
>>> IT WILL BE A BRIEF RECESS
BECAUSE IT JUST 1.5 MINUTES,
1:00, WE EXPECT TO SEE THE
SENATE GAVILAN FOR THE
IMPEACHMENT, THE TRIAL PRESIDENT
TRUMP. I AM HERE IN THE STUDIO
WITH ERIN BLAKE. OKAY, AARON, WE
ACTUALLY NEED SOME INFORMATION
HERE BECAUSE LEADER McCONNELL.
GOING TO MOVE TO TABLE ANY THING
THEY MAY BRING UP. YOU MAY JUDGE
IT JUST SCOOTED ALONG AND NOT
EVEN GIVE THEM FILTERED AIRING
BEFORE THE SENATE. McCONNELL
LOSING WORDS LIKE THIS IS
A MID-TRIAL QUESTION. SO, HE IS
ALREADY TRYING TO CHANGE THE
EXPECTATION OF JUST WHEN
WITNESSES WOULD BE INTRODUCED.
EVIDENCE WOULD COME IN IF AT
ALL.
>> THE ARGUMENT IS BASICALLY, WE
WILL BE ABLE TO VOTE ON THESE
THINGS AT SOME POINT. SCHUMER
MAKES SOME IMPORTANT ARGUMENTS
THERE. IN WHAT WAYS IS IS
ACTUALLY DIFFERENT THAN HOW THE
CLINTON IMPEACHMENT RULES WERE
HANDLED, GENERALLY SPEAKING
. THE RULES YOU PRETTY CLOSELY
TO THAT AND THAT HAS BEEN MITCH
McCONNELL'S ARGUMENT THROUGHOUT.
ONE KEY DIFFERENCE IS OBVIOUSLY,
THE COMPRESSED SCHEDULE THAT
ONLY TWO DAYS FOR OPENING
ARGUMENTS RATHER THAN THREE.
SAME AMOUNT OF TIME, BUT JUST
COMPRESSED INTO FEWER DAYS,
BRINGING US LATER INTO THE
NIGHT. SECOND ONE IS HOUSE
EVIDENCE IS NOT IMMEDIATELY
EMBEDDED INTO THE RECORD. THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT GETS VOTED ON
AFTER THE ART OPENING ARGUMENTS,
AFTER THE SENATE ASKED QUESTION.
CHUCK SCHUMER THERE ESSENTIALLY
ARGUED THAT THAT ALLOWS FOR THE
OPENING ARGUMENTS AND THE
QUESTIONS FROM SENATORS NOT TO
BE BASED ON THE KNOWN EVIDENCE.
WILL SEE TO WHAT DEGREE THAT'S
TRUE. I WOULD BE SURPRISED IF
ULTIMATELY THEY DID NOT GET
ENOUGH REPUBLICAN SENATORS TO
ADMIT THAT EVIDENCE BUT IT WON'T
BE UNTIL LATER IN THE, THE HOPE
TO ACTUALLY HAVE VOTES ON THE
EVIDENCE AND NEW EVIDENCE. THAT
WILL TAKE PLACE AGAIN IT APPEARS
WE HAVE ENOUGH - TWO HAVE ENOUGH
TO ALLOW THAT TO TAKE PLACE. IF
WE GET TO THE POINT WHERE MAYBE
THESE REPUBLICANS THESE, THE
SWING VOTES IS EITHER NOT
TERRIBLY MOVED BY THE EVIDENCE
THEY SIN, THEY CAN VOTE AGAINST
HAVING ANY WITNESSES, RATHER
THAN JUST A VOTING AGAINST
HAVING JOHN BOLTON TESTIFY.
PRACTICALLY SPEAKING, IT MIGHT
BE THE SAME THING, BUT MAYBE
THAT'S A LITTLE BIT OF AN EASIER
VOTE FOR THEM AND MAYBE THAT'S
WHY McCONNELL IS GOING DOWN THIS
ROAD. THE FOURTH ONE AND I DON'T
KNOW SENATOR SCHUMER MENTIONED
THIS, BUT THE VOTES TO DISMISS.
IN THE CLINTON TRIAL, THERE WAS
AN OPPORTUNITY TO
VOTE ON WHETHER TO DISMISS THE
CHARGES. THAT WAS MANDATORY AT
THE TIME. THAT IS NOT ACTUALLY
INCLUDED IN THESE RULES.
HIS DEFENSE TEAM PUT SOME OF THE
DEFENSE AND THEY ARE NOW
COUNTERING MATT. WE WILL SEE
THIS IN THE COMING DAYS. TODAY
IS A DAY OF PROCEDURE WHERE WE
WILL SEE MITCH McCONNELL TALK
ABOUT HOW TO MOVE FORWARD AND
CHUCK SCHUMER AND DEMOCRATS
WILL PUSH BACK. WE ARE LIKELY TO
SEE SENATORS GET SWORN IN AND WE
WILL SEE THE RANKS OF THE REST
OF THE NINE SENDERS AND COME
INTO THIS ENVIRONMENT WHERE THEY
HAVE TO NOT HAVE DEVICES AND
THEY HAVE TO SIT AND LISTEN AND
BE PASSIVE CONSUMERS AND
OBSERVERS OF WHAT IS TAKING
PLACE. WE MAY SEE SOME VOTES IN
THE COMING HOURS BUT THAT IS
ONLY IF McCONNELL DOESN'T SHUT
IT DOWN RIGHT AWAY.
>> IN REGARDS OF HOW MUCH OF A
DEBATE WE HAVE, THERE IS NO
LIGHT
FOR REPUBLICANS ON THIS. EVEN
ALEXANDER WHO IS ONE OF THE
FOURTH VOTES TO SAY WE HAVE TO
HAVE WITNESSES
,  THEY HAVE BEEN IN LINE WITH
THESE RULES THAT WE NEED TO VOTE
ON THESE THINGS LATER RON.
>> THAT IS A SUCCESS FOR MITCH
McCONNELL  TO START WITH WHAT HE
WANTS TO HAVE HAPPEN AND WHAT
THE APPETITE IS FOR WITNESSES,
THAT IS A REAL QUESTION MARK AS
THINGS GO FORWARD. I HAVE HEARD
PEOPLE CAUGHT THE BUTT NUMBING
STRATEGY BECAUSE SO MANY WILL BE
SITTING
FOR SEVERAL DAYS THAT THEY MAY
BE OVER THE PROCESS OR THEY MAY
NOT FEEL LIKE DEMOCRATIC AND
FUTURE MANAGERS HAVE MADE A
STRONG ENOUGH CASE.
>> THERE IS A REASON WHY THESE
RULES ARE BEING DELAYED.  THINGS
CAN CHANGE EARLY ON AND PEOPLE
CAN BE TUNED OUT AND MAYBE THESE
SWING LOOKING VOTES, MAYBE THEY
SUDDENLY FEEL LIKE
THE CASE HAS NOT BEEN THAT
COMPELLING AND PEOPLE ARE NOT
THAT TUNED IN AND THEY HAVE MORE
COVERAGE TO VOTE IN A WAY THAT
IS
MORE APPEALING FOR THE PRESIDENT
AND DOESN'T LOOK AS POOR ON THEM
IN A SPECIFIC IS A HAVE
CAMPAIGNS TO WORRY ABOUT MY CALL
AND CORY GARDNER. IF PEOPLE ARE
BORED OF ALL OF THIS AND THEY
GET TIME TO THOSE VOTES, IT WILL
BE EASIER FOR THEM TO CAST SOME
TOUGH VOTES THAT MAY BE RIGHT
NOW SEEMS LIKE PEOPLE WANT TO
SEE THAT EVIDENCE AND THE POLLS
WILL CERTAINLY SHOW THAT BUT
THINGS CAN CHANGE AND PEOPLE CAN
TUNE OUT OR CAN SAY MAYBE IT
WASN'T A HUGE DEAL TO VOTE.
>> CENTERS ARE GATHERING AND
SENDERS WILL BE SEATED AND THEY
WILL NOT BE COMMUNICATING OUT
WITH STAFF OR OTHER PEOPLE.
THIS IS GETTING A LITTLE BIT
OLD-SCHOOL WITH NO DEVICES IN
TERMS OF WHAT THEY CAN DO.
>> THE NEW ROLE WE ARE ALL
TALKING ABOUT  IS THE BEVERAGE
ROLE. APPARENTLY YOU CAN ONLY
DRINK WATER OR MILK.
>> THAT IS JUST IN THE ROLES.
>> IT IS ACTUALLY IN THE RULES.
WE HAVE ARCHAIC RULES AND WE ARE
DIGGING INTO ALL OF THEM.
>>
ERIN, WHAT WILL YOU BE WATCHING
FOR TODAY IN TERMS OF TRYING TO
GET A SENSE OF HOW MUCH CONTROL
CHUCK SCHUMER HAS OVER HIS
CAUCUS AND HOW MUCH THEY CAN
MAKE WITH THE MODERATE
REPUBLICANS IN TERMS OF SETTING
PARAMETERS?
>> DO THE LIKES OF MITT ROMNEY
AND SUSAN COLLINS
HAVE REACTION WITH HOW THE
DEBATES ARE PENDING OUT? ALL OF
THIS DEPENDS ALMOST SOLELY ON
THE 3 TO 4 HOOK IN SENATORS THAT
WOULD NEED TO BE CROSSING OVER
IN ORDER TO HAVE NEW EVIDENCE
OTHERWISE THIS PROCESS WILL BE
BASICALLY ADDING TO THE PUBLIC
RECORD AND EVERYONE CAN SAY WHAT
THEY WANT BUT MITT ROMNEY AND
COLLINS SAY ON THE HOUSE FLOOR
OR ANYWHERE ELSE OF WHAT WILL
TELL US AND
I THOUGHT THAT WAS PRETTY
FRUSTRATION OF HOW THEY WERE
SHOWING THIS AND THEY ARE
GETTING OUTRAGED BY EVERYTHING
WHEN THESE RULES ARE PRETTY
CLOSE WITH THE
CLINTON TRIAL AND MAYBE THEY
SHOULD TONE IT DOWN A LITTLE
BIT. I THINK FOR MITT ROMNEY,
THAT IS LITTLE BIT OF A WARNING
SIGN SAYING IF YOU'RE GOING TO
PUSH THIS HARD, IT WILL BE
HARDER FOR ME TO GET ON BOARD
WITH YOU EVENTUALLY DOWN THE
LINE AND MADE PEOPLE SHOULD
LIGHTEN UP AND LET THINGS PLAY
OUT BEFORE WE HAVE THESE
OUTRAGED POLITICAL BASES.
>>
CHUCK SCHUMER MADE HIS REMARKS
AS THE SENATE GOT UNDERWAY AND
HE HAS TO BE AWARE OF THE
AUDIENCE AND WHO HE IS SPEAKING
TO. THERE IS A REAL DANGER  IN
GETTING TOO PARTISAN AND BEING
TOO OUTRAGED ONLY IN THE SENSE
THAT IT COULD ALIENATE SOME OF
THE MODERATE REPUBLICANS AND
THAT IS PART OF HIS AUDIENCE. IT
COULD ALSO ELEVATE SUPPORTERS.
HE HAS TO WALK THAT FINE LINE OF
PUSHING FORWARD WHAT THE
DEMOCRATS REALLY BELIEVE AND
ALSO TRYING TO BE AS REASONABLE
AND CALM AS POSSIBLE BECAUSE THE
REPUBLICANS ARE DECIDING WITH
HIM.
>> I HAVE BEEN FOLLOWING THE
FOUR CENTERS THAT WE HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT FOR A WHILE  AND
SOMETIMES THEY WILL MAKE
COMMENTS THAT SUGGEST THEY ARE
VERY OPEN AND WOULD VOTE IN
FAVOR BUT OTHERWISE THEY SUGGEST
THEY ARE VERY MUCH IN LINE WITH
HOW
McCONNELL IS HANDLING THIS
PROCESS. THEY ARE BEING
DIPLOMATIC AND TRY TO MAKE SURE
THAT THEY DON'T COMMIT TOO FAR
ONE WAY OR THE OTHER AT THIS
POINT WHICH IS WHAT POLITICIANS
DO AND THAT IS NOT TERRIBLY
SURPRISING BUT I THINK IT DOES
DEFLECT THE DIFFICULT SITUATION
THEY ARE IN AND THEY ALWAYS WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY KEEP THAT
POWER
TO MAKE THOSE HARD DECISIONS
LATER ON AND THEY DON'T WANT TO
SAY TOO MUCH AT THE FRONT END OF
THE PROCESS THAT WOULD MAKE IT
LOOK LIKE THEY WOULD FLIP SO I
THINK WE WILL CONTINUE TO SEE
THAT AND IF THEY DO STEP SIDE OF
THE CIRCUMSPECT
AS MAYBE MITT ROMNEY DID A
LITTLE BIT, WE CAN TAKE THAT AS
A BIG INDICATOR OF WHICH WAY
THEY MIGHT BE LEANING.
>> ALL RIGHT, WE ARE WATCHING
FOR THIS TO GET UNDERWAY. LET'S
GO TO OUR COLLEAGUE ON CAPITOL
HILL THAT HAS BEEN TRACKING ALL
OF THIS  THIS MORNING. RHONDA,
IF YOU LOOK AT THE REMARKS, WHAT
DOES THAT MEAN TO YOU?
>> ONE THING , WHEN I HEARD
SENATOR CHUCK SCHUMER DISCUSS
HIS PLANS, HE PLANS TO BRING UP
ELEMENTS AND HE SAID  EARLIER
THAT HE PLANS TO BRING A SERIES
OF AMENDMENTS
TO FIX THE FLAWS ARE ARE IN
McCONNELL'S RESOLUTION IN HIS
WORDS. THAT WILL SET THE
GUIDELINES FOR THIS TRIAL AND
WHEN REPORTERS ASKED CHUCK
SCHUMER WHATEVER MINTS WILL YOU
BRING AND HOW MANY WILL THERE
BE, HE WAS NOT FORTHCOMING
BUT HE DID RELEASE A MEMBER THAT
HE INTENDS TO BRING UP ON THIS
ORGANIZATIONAL RESOLUTION AND
THE FIRST ONE IS TO HAVE THE
SENATE
SUBPOENA WHITE HOUSE DOCUMENTS
RELATED TO THE UKRAINE CALL AND
SPECIFICALLY HE WOULD SAY THAT
HE WANTS DOCUMENTS FROM BOLTON
EMIL VANIA THAT
SURROUND THE UKRAINE CALL SO
EXPECT A LOT OF BACK-AND-FORTH
TODAY AFTER THIS RESOLUTION IS
BROUGHT UP. DEMOCRATS WILL
CERTAINLY PRESS FOR AMENDMENTS
AS WE SEE THROUGHOUT THE DAY.
THAT IS WHAT I HAVE HEARD FROM
CHUCK SCHUMER, THE MINORITY
LEADER  IN THE SENATE AND WHAT
SET OUT TO MEET WITH McCONNELL'S
COMMENTS IS THAT HE IS NOT
BACKING DOWN. HE IS SHOWING THAT
THE BALL IS IN HIS COURT RIGHT
NOW AND HE MAKES THE DECISIONS
ON HOW THE RULES AND RESOLUTION
WILL GO ABOUT AND IT REMAINS TO
BE SEEN HOW MANY CLASHES MIGHT
HAPPEN TODAY OVER THESE RULES.
>> MUCH OF THIS HAPPENED BEHIND
THE SCENES WITH THE CLINTON
IMPEACHMENT AND THERE WASN'T
REALLY AN ATTEMPT BY SENDERS TO
HAVE A DECOR ROOM AND THEN THEY
SAW THAT OVER IN THE HOUSE WITH
THE CLINTON IMPEACHMENT WHICH
WAS SUCH A FLAME DURING BODY. WE
ARE NOT SEEING THAT THIS TIME.
>> YEAH AND I THINK PART OF
THAT IS A REFLECTION OF THE SET
UP OF THE SENATE BACK THEN. I
REMEMBER IN 1999, THE
REPUBLICANS CONTROLLED HOUSE AND
THE REPUBLICANS CONTROLLED
SENATE
. THERE WAS A REASON FOR
DEMOCRATS
OR VULCAN DRIVER TO GO ALONG
WITH DEMOCRATS AND LOOK LIKE
THEY WERE BEING MIDDLEGROUND
BECAUSE THEY KNEW THEY HAD
CONTROL OVER THE PROCESS MOVING
FORWARD AND THEY CAN VOTE ON THE
WITNESSES LATER IF THEY WANT TO
AND THEY EVENTUALLY DID THAT
WITH WILENSKY AND JORDAN
TESTIFYING AND IN THIS CASE IF
DEMOCRATS WERE GOING TO GET ANY
LEVERAGE OVER THIS, IT WOULD
HAPPEN AT THE FRONT END AND THIS
IS REALLY THE LAST DITCH EFFORT
TO BE ABLE TO HAVE SOME CONTROL
OVER THE DIRECTION OF THE TRIAL.
THEY WILL NOT BE ABLE TO GET IT
JUDGING BY WHAT WE HAVE SEEN BUT
WHAT TODAY WILL BE MORE ABOUT IS
MORE LIKELY A MESSAGING EXERCISE
AND THAT IS WHY I THINK WE SAW
THE FIRST AMENDMENT THAT RHONDA
WAS TALKING ABOUT. IT IS
SUBPOENAING WHITE HOUSE
DOCUMENTS.
THEY CAN SAY NOW THAT RAMEKINS
VOTED AGAINST INCLUDING WHITE
HOUSE DOCUMENTS THAT CAN REALLY
SHED LIGHT ON THESE THINGS SO
GIVEN THAT IS THE FIRST
AMENDMENT, I THINK THAT SPEAKS
TO WHAT THIS EXERCISE WILL BE
WHICH IS A MESSAGING EXERCISE.
>> DOES THAT PUT SOME OF THE
MODERATE
PUBLICANS IN A TOUGH SPOT?
>> THAT DECIDES THE ASPECT OF IT
IF THAT WILL BE A TOP VOTE FOR
COLLINS OR MICHALSKI OR ROMNEY
BUT I THINK THE ARGUMENT THEY
WILL COME BACK WITH WHICH IS I
HAVE BEEN TALKING FOREVER ABOUT
HOW WE NEED TO HAVE THESE
DEBATES LATER ON ONCE WE HEAR
THE ARGUMENTS AND THERE'S ALWAYS
A TIME TO VOTE FOR THAT LATER ON
IN THE PROCESS.
>> THEY ARE TOTALLY GIVING COVER
AND THERE IS NO RULE THAT SAYS
THEY ARE MID-TRIAL QUESTIONS BUT
HE IS GIVING COVER TO SAY NOT
NOW AND WE WILL SEE WHAT THE
APPETITE IS LATER.
>> EXACTLY. I WOULDN'T EXPECT
TO SEE ANY OF THEM
DEPART ON PARTYLINE BECAUSE THEY
HAVE BEEN PRETTY CONSISTENT THAT
THE VOTES SHOULD TAKE PLACE
LATER AND THAT IS ME DEMOCRATS
WILL COME BACK AND SAY THAT
ROMNEY SAID HE DOESN'T WANT TO
SEE THESE DOCUMENTS RIGHT AWAY.
HE APPROVED THESE RULES WITHOUT
SAYING WE NEED ALL OF THE HOUSE
EVIDENCE IMMEDIATELY AND THOSE
ARE FAIR ARGUMENTS
THAT MITT ROMNEY WILL COME BACK
AND SAY THOSE THINGS WILL COME
IN TIME IF WE NEED THEM.
>> WE HEARD SENATOR CHUCK
SCHUMER SAY A TRIAL WITHOUT
EVIDENCE IS NOT A TRIAL BUT A
COVER-UP.  WE ARE HEARING THAT
PHRASE TESTED BY DEMOCRATS AND
DOES NOT STICK WITH THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC OR RESONATE IN PEOPLE'S
MINDS?
>> IT IS A CURIOUS QUESTION
BECAUSE  THE IDEA THAT UNLIKE
THE CLINTON TRIAL, WE WILL NOT
SEE THAT EVIDENCE ADMITTED RIGHT
AWAY AND BACK THEN OF COURSE IT
WAS THE REPORT BUT THIS TIME IT
IS THE EVIDENCE THAT IS
COLLECTED BY THE HOUSE AND THE
DEMOCRATIC CONTROL
HOUSE. HOW ARE THOSE OPENING
ARGUMENTS GOING TO BE CHANGED BY
THAT? WHAT IF THEY START TALKING
ABOUT EVIDENCE THAT SENATORS
DON'T HAVE OR WILL IT BE
PHILOSOPHICAL ARGUMENTS ABOUT
WHAT THE CONSTITUTION REQUIRES
FOR IMPEACHMENT? IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE HOW MUCH
EVIDENCE THEY WILL BE ABLE TO
TALK ABOUT GIVEN THAT IT IS NOT
ENTERED INTO THE RECORD WITH THE
QUESTIONS FOR THE SENATORS AND
IF THEY HAVE ACTUALLY BEEN
INTRODUCED INTO THE RECORD.
>>
LEADER McCONNELL WANT TO SAY
THAT HE IS FOLLOWING PRECEDENT
BY TAKING THE CLINTON TRIAL AS
HIS ROADMAP AND YET HE IS
TOTALLY DEVIATING FROM THAT.
THERE IS A LOT OF UNFAIRNESS
THAT IS NOT STICKING TO WHAT
HAPPENED DURING THE CLINTON AREA
BUT IT IS FASCINATING THAT
McCONNELL WAS ABLE TO LAY
THROUGH THAT PROCESS AS THE
STARTING POINT.
EVERYONE IS TAKING IT LIKE A
GIVEN AS THAT IS THE STARTING
PLACE OF WHERE THIS AGO AND
THERE HAVE ONLY BEEN TWO OTHER
TRIALS IN THE HISTORY OF THIS
NATION SO HE IS SAYING 24 HOURS
BUT TO CUT IT UP INTO THESE
MARATHON DAYS IS NOT DOING THE
DEMOCRATS ANY FAVORS.
>> LIKE I SAID BEFORE, IT IS A
DEPARTURE FROM THE CLINTON
ROADMAP AND IT IS SIMILAR IN
MANY WAYS BUT THE FOUR THINGS
THAT I OUTLINED BEFORE ARE
NOTABLE DEPARTURES
AND THEY ALL SEEM TO THE AIR IN
A DIRECTION THAT IS MORE
FRIENDLY FOR THE PRESIDENT'S
DEFENSE BY HAVING THESE THINGS
LATE AND BY COMPRESSING THREE
DAYS OF ARGUMENTS INTO TWO BY
HAVING THAT VOTE WITH THE HOUSE
EVIDENCE LATER ON RATHER THAN AT
THE BEGINNING AND GIVING IT TO
ALL SENATORS RIGHT AWAY, THOSE
ARE KEY DIFFERENCES AND THEY MAY
SING LIKE SMALL CHANGES BUT IT
COULD HAVE A BIG IMPACT ON HOW
MANY PEOPLE TUNED IN
AND HOW MUCH THIS WILL BE
DEALING WITH THE EVIDENCE.
>> THE MORE THAT THE LEADER
McCONNELL CAN GET POLITICS OUT
OF IT  AND REFER TO IT AS
PROCEDURAL ISSUES, THE EASIER IT
IS FOR HAWKINS TO GET COVER
UNDER HIS SHELTER. I WANT TO GO
OVER WHAT THIS WILL LOOK LIKE.
THIS IS HOW LEADER McCONNELL
WANTS THINGS TO LOOK. THIS IS
OVER TWO DAYS AND 16 HOURS FOR
QUESTIONS AND THERE COULD BE A
MOTION TO DISMISS AND THEM FOUR
HOURS TO DEBATE ON THE WITNESSES
AND DOCUMENTS.
>> YES AND IF WE START TO GET
TOWARDS THE END WHERE THERE ARE
REAL DEBATES ON WITNESSES OR
RESTART HAVING VOTES ON
DEPOSITIONS BEING REQUIRED, THIS
IS A PROCESS
THAT COULD TRIAL LONGER THAN TWO
WEEKS DEPENDING ON HOW MUCH OF
AN APPETITE THERE IS FOR NEW
EVIDENCE IN THE CASE AND OF
COURSE THAT BRINGS US TO THE EVE
OF THE CAUCUSES WHICH A FEW
DEMOCRATIC SENATORS RESIDING MAY
NOT BE PARTICULARLY HAPPY WITH
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND IF THAT IS
WHAT THE PARTY NEEDS TO GET NEW
EVIDENCE, THAT WILL BE THE PRICE
OF DOING BUSINESS. I CAN SEE AN
ARGUMENT WERE HAVING THESE
COMPRESSED OPENING ARGUMENTS IS
BETTER BECAUSE IT MIGHT GIVE
THEM MORE TIME TO GET THAT NEW
EVIDENCE AND THE WITNESSES
BEFORE THEY WOULD WANT TO GET
RID OF THE TRIAL AND BE ON TO
OTHER THINGS.
>> THIS IS THE WEEK AFTER I WAS
SO THERE IS A LOT IN LINE.
>> RIGHT NOW THEY ARE HAVING
SURROGATES CAMPAIGNED FOR THEM
AND THEY ARE TRY TO GET AS MANY
AS POSSIBLE. THERE IS A PREMIUM
ON HAVING SOME KIND OF PRESENCE
BECAUSE THE SENATORS WILL BE
PULLING A LOT OF LATE NIGHTS AND
THEY WILL BE TIRED AND NOT BE
ABLE TO DEVOTE MUCH TIME.
>> EVEN A PROPOSAL LIKE THIS IS
GETTING BLOWN UP IF THEY GO
UNTIL THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT IN
THIS TRIAL PROCESS.
>> IT INCREASES THE IMPORTANCE
OF STAFFING  AND THOSE
SURROGATES AND BASICALLY RUNNING
THE STRETCH RUN OF THE CAMPAIGN
WHEN THE CANDIDATE IS JUST NOT
ABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL BE SO
CONSUMED WITH THE TRIAL.
>> AS OPENING ARGUMENTS DO GET
UNDERWAY TOMORROW, WE EXPECT
THEY WILL GET UNDERWAY TOMORROW,
THERE IS A REAL QUESTION OF HOW
REPUBLICANS WILL DEFEND
PRESIDENT TRUMP BOTH IN THIS
COURTROOM SETTING AND TRIAL
SETTING AS WELL AS OUTSIDE ON
TELEVISION. WE DO HAVE A SENSE
OF THAT BECAUSE WE ARE GETTING
THESE ARGUMENTS FROM BOTH SIDES
BUT THE MORE THAT MITCH
McCONNELL MAKES US ABOUT
PROCESS, THE MORE IT PLAYS INTO
THAT ARGUMENT OF REPUBLICANS OF
THE PROCESS IS FLAWED ON THE
HOUSE SIDE AND THE DEMOCRATS ARE
NOT DOING A GOOD JOB AND THEY
KEEP THE FOCUS ON THE DETAILS
AND LESS OF WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
ACTUALLY DID AND WHAT HIS ALLIES
AND WHAT DOCUMENTS SHOW THAT HIS
ALLIES DID REGARDING THE UKRAINE
RELATIONSHIP.
>> I THINK McCONNELL MAKING
THOSE ARGUMENTS TODAY , I THINK
PART OF THAT IS GEARED TOWARDS
ARGUING THAT OUR RULES ARE FAIR
AND MORE FAIR THAN
THE HOUSES RULE SO IT MAKES
SENSE TO MAKE ARGUMENTS TODAY
BUT I WOULD NOT BE SURPRISED TO
SEE THAT ENDURING INTO THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS MAKING THE
CASE ON THE SENATE FLOOR AND
MAKING THIS ABOUT THE IDEA THAT
THE HOUSES INQUIRY WAS
FUNDAMENTALLY UNFAIR. THAT WAS
THE ARGUMENT OF CHOICE DURING
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
AND THEY WILL HAVE A LOT OF TIME
TO FILL AND THEY WILL NOT WANT
TO GET BOGGED DOWN IN WHAT
GORDON SOLOMON SAID OR THINGS
LIKE THAT. IT IS MUCH MORE
FRIENDLY FOR THEM TO TALK ABOUT
PROCESS
AND THE OTHER THING I THINK YOU
WILL SEE THEM TALK ABOUT IS WHAT
IS THE CONSTITUTIONAL STANDARD
FOR IMPEACHMENT? WE SAW THAT
PROMINENTLY IN THIS MEMO OF THE
IDEA OF EVEN IF THIS IS TRUE,
THIS IS A PRESIDENTIAL
PREROGATIVE TO IMPEACH SOMEONE
AND I THINK WE WILL SEE A LOT OF
THAT AND NOT A WHOLE LOT OF IS
WHAT GORDON ZONE SAYING ACTUALLY
ACCURATE
AND WHAT DOES IT MEAN? THE MORE
THEY GET INTO THOSE DEBTS, THE
MORE THEY LEND CREDENCE TO THE
IDEA THAT THIS IS A SUBSTANTIAL
CASE AND MAYBE WE NEED NEW
EVIDENCE FOR THE TRIAL TO MOVE
FORWARD.
>> WE HEARD SENATOR CHUCK
SCHUMER JUST DEFEND  JOURNALISM
AND JOURNALISTS BECAUSE
DEMOCRATS ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
HOW THIS IS BEEN LAID OUT TO
CONFINE REPORTERS AND CUT OFF
ACCESS AND THE WAY THEY USUALLY
HAVE THEM AND OF COURSE IT IS
ALWAYS GREAT
WHEN JOURNALISM IS DEFENDED BUT
DEMOCRATS HAVE A REAL AGENDA
HERE AS WELL. WE DID HEAR HIM
TALK ABOUT THE MECHANICS OF THE
REPORTERS THAT ARE IN THE
CHAMBER THAT HAVE TO GET OUT TO
FILE STORIES AND THEN THEY HAVE
TO MAKE THEIR WAY BACK IN
THROUGH SCREENING SO WE DO SEE
THE CHIEF JUSTICE HAS TAKEN HIS
SEAT SO LET'S LISTEN INTO THE
SENATE FLOOR.
>> DO YOU SOLEMNLY SWEAR THAT IN
ALL THINGS PERTAINING TO THE
TRIAL OF THE IMPEACHMENT OF
DONALD DON TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES NOW PENDING,
YOU WILL DO IMPARTIAL JUSTICE
ACCORDING TO THE CONSTITUTION
AND LAWS,  SO HELP YOU GONE?
>> I DO.
>> THE SECRETARY WILL KNOW THE
NAME OF THE SENDER THAT HAS JUST
TAKEN THE OATH AND WILL PRESENT
THE OATH TO HIM FOR SIGNATURE.
THE SERGEANT IN ARMS WILL MAKE
THE PROCLAMATION.
>>
HERE YE, HERE YE, HERE YE, ALL
PERSONS ARE COMMITTED TO REMAIN
SILENT.
THIS IS AGAINST ALL JOHN TRUMP,
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
>> THE MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO STATE THAT
FOR THE INFORMATION OF ALL
SENATORS, THE TRIAL BRIEF FILED
YESTERDAY BY THE
PARTIES HAVE BEEN CREDITED
ENTERED ON EACH SENATORS DESK.
>> THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS WILL
BE SUBMITTED TO THE SENATE FOR
PRINTING  IN THE SENATE JOURNAL.
THE PRECEPT ISSUE GENERALLY 16
, 2020, THE SUMMONS ISSUED ON
JANUARY 16, 2020 AND THE RECEIPT
OF SUMMONS DATED JANUARY 16,
. THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS WHICH
WERE RECEIVED BY THE SECRETARY
OF THE SENATE
WILL BE SUBMITTED FOR PRINTING
IN THE SENATE JOURNAL PURSUANT
TO THE ORDER OF JANUARY 16,
2020. THE ANSWER OF DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES TO THE ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT EXHIBITED BY THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AGAINST
HIM ON JANUARY 16, 2020 RECEIVED
BY THE SECRETARY OF SENATE ON
JANUARY 18, 2020. THE TRIAL
BRIEF FILED BY THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES RECEIVED BY THE
SECRETARY OF THE SENATE ON JUNE
18, 2020. THE TRIAL BRIEF BY THE
PRESIDENT RECEIVED BY THE
SECRETARY OF THE SENATE ON
JANUARY 20
, 2020 AND THE REPLICATION OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
RECEIVED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE
SENATE ON JANUARY 20, 2020 AND
THE REBUTTAL BRIEF FILED BY THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
RECEIVED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE
SENATE ON UNWARY 21, 2020.
WITHOUT OBJECTION, THE DOCUMENTS
WE PRINTED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD. I NOTE THE PRESENCE IN
THE HOUSE OF THE SENATE AND IN
THE SENATE CHAMBER OF THE
MANAGERS ON THE PART OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AND THE
COUNCIL OR THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
>> THE MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> I HAVE A LIST OF FLOOR
PRIVILEGES  AND IT HAS BEEN
AGREED TO BY BOTH SIDES AS
INSERTED IN THE RECORD AND
AGREED TO BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT.
>> WITHOUT OBJECTION .
>> THE FOR THE INFORMATION OF
ALL SENATORS , I WILL SEND A
RESOLUTION TO THE DESK FOR THE
NEXT STEPS IN THESE PROCEEDINGS.
THEY WILL BE DEBATES AND CHUCK
SCHUMER WILL SEND AN AMENDMENT
TO THE RESOLUTION  OF THE DESK.
MAY HAVE BEEN OFFERED AND
REPORTED AND THEY WILL HAVE A
BRIEF RECESS. THIS WILL BE
DEBATABLE BY THE PARTIES FROM
TWO HOURS AND YIELDING THE BACK
OF TIME TO MOVE THE TABLE TO
CENTER
CHUCK SCHUMER'S AMENDMENT AND SO
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, I SEND A
RESOLUTION TO THE DESK AND ASK
THAT IT BE READ.
>> THE CLERK WILL READ THE
RESOLUTION.
>> SENATE RESOLUTION 483
PROVIDES FOR RELATED PROCEDURES
CONCERNING THE ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT AGAINST DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.  RESOLVED THAT THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES SHALL FILE
ITS RECORD WITH SECRETARY
OF THE SENATE WHICH WILL CONSIST
OF THOSE PUBLICLY AVAILABLE
MATERIALS THAT HAVE BEEN
SUBMITTED TO OR PRODUCED BY THE
HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
INCLUDING TRANSCRIPTS OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS OR MARKUPS IN ANY
MATERIALS PRINTED BY THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES OR THE HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE PURSUANT TO
HOUSE RESOLUTION
660. MATERIALS IN THIS RECORD
WILL BE ADMITTED INTO EVIDENCE
SUBJECT TO ANY HEARSAY
EVIDENTIARY OR OTHER OBJECTIONS
THAT THE PRESIDENT MAY MAKE
AFTER OPENING PRESENTATIONS
ARE CONCLUDED. ALL MATERIALS
FILED PURSUANT TO THIS PARAGRAPH
SHALL BE PRINTED AND MADE
AVAILABLE TO ALL PARTIES. THE
PRESIDENT AND HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES SHALL HAVE UNTIL
9 AM ON WEDNESDAY, JAMIE 22nd,
2020 TO FILE ANY
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF MOTION TIP
SUBPOENA WITNESSES OR DOCUMENTS
OR ANY OTHER EVIDENTIARY
MOTIONS. RESPONSES TO ANY SUCH
MOTIONS SHALL BE FILED NO LATER
THAN 11 AM ON WEDNESDAY JANUARY
22, 2020
. ALL MATERIALS FILED PURSUANT
TO THIS PARAGRAPH SHALL BE FILED
WITH THE SECRETARY AND BE
PRINTED AND MADE AVAILABLE TO
ALL PARTIES. ARGUMENTS ON SUCH
MOTIONS SHALL BEGIN AT 1 PM ON
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020 AND
EACH SIDE MAY DETERMINE THE
NUMBER OF PERSONS TO MAKE THE
PRESENTATION FOLLOWING WHICH THE
SENATE SHALL DELIBERATE IF SO
ORDERED UNDER THE IMPEACHMENT
RULES AND VOTE ON ANY SUCH
MOTIONS. FOLLOWING THE
DISPOSITION OF SUCH MOTION
OR IF NO MOTIONS ARE MADE, THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SHALL
MAKE THE PRESENTATION IN SUPPORT
OF THE ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT
FOR A PERIOD OF TIME NOT TO
EXCEED 24 HOURS
OVER UP TO THREE SESSION DAYS.
FOLLOWING THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES PRESENTATION,
THE PRESIDENT SHALL MAKE HIS
PRESENTATION FOR A PERIOD NOT TO
EXCEED 24 HOURS OVER UP TO THREE
SESSION DAYS. EACH SIDE MAY
DETERMINE THE NUMBER OF PERSONS
TO MAKE THE PRESENTATION AND
UPON THE CONCLUSION OF THE
PRESENTATION, SENATORS MAY
QUESTION THE PARTIES FOR A
PERIOD OF TIME NOT TO EXCEED 16
HOURS AND UPON THE CONCLUSION OF
QUESTIONING BY THE SENATE, THERE
SHALL BE FOUR HOURS OF ARGUMENTS
EQUALLY DIVIDED
FOLLOWED BY THE LIBERATION BY
THE SENATE IF SO ORDERED UNDER
THE IMPEACHMENT RULE ON THE
QUESTION OF WHETHER IT SHALL BE
IN ORDER TO CONSIDER AND DEBATE
UNDER THE IMPEACHMENT RULES AND
EMOTION TO SUBPOENA WITNESSES OR
DOCUMENTS. THE SENATE WITHOUT
ANY INTERVENING ACTION, MOTION
OR AMENDMENT SHALL THEN DECIDE
WHETHER IT SHALL BE IN ORDER TO
CONSIDER AND DEBATE UNDER THE
IMPEACHMENT RULES AND EMOTION TO
SUBPOENA WITNESSES OR DOCUMENTS.
FOLLOWING THE DISPOSITION OF
THAT QUESTION, OTHER MOTIONS
PROVIDED UNDER THE IMPEACHMENT
RULES SHALL BE IN ORDER. IF THE
SENATE AGREES TO ALLOW EITHER
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OR
THE PRESIDENT TO SUBPOENA
WITNESSES, THE WITNESSES SHALL
FIRST BE DEPOSED AND THE SENATE
SHALL DECIDE AFTER DEPOSITION
WHICH WITNESSES ALL TESTIFY
PURSUANT TO THE IMPEACHMENT
RULES. NO TESTIMONY SHALL BE
ADMISSIBLE IN THE SENATE UNLESS
THE PARTIES HAVE HAD AN
OPPORTUNITY TO DEPOSE SUCH
WITNESSES. AT THE CONCLUSION OF
DELIBERATIONS BY THE SENATE,
THEY SHALL VOTE ON EACH ARTICLE
OF IMPEACHMENT.
>> THE RESOLUTION IS ARGUABLE BY
THE PARTIES FOR TWO HOURS
EQUALLY DIVIDED.  MR. MANAGER,
ARE YOU A PROPONENT OR OPPONENT
OF THIS MOTION?
>> CENTERS ARE IN OPPOSITION.
>> THANK YOU.
ARE YOU A PROPONENT OR OPPONENT
OF THE MOTION?
>> WE ARE A PROPONENT OF THE
MOTION.
>> YOUR SIDE MAY PROCEED FIRST
AND WE WILL BE ABLE TO RESERVE
FOR REBUTTAL TIME IF YOU WISH.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHIEF JUSTICE.
MAJORITY LEADER McCONNELL AND
LEADER CHUCK SCHUMER  AND
SENATORS, MY NAME IS PAT AND I'M
HERE AS COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES. OUR TEAM
IS PROUD TO BE HERE REPRESENTING
PRESIDENT TRUMP. WE SUPPORT THIS
RESOLUTION. IT IS A FAIR WAY TO
PROCEED WITH THIS TRIAL. IT IS
MODELED ON THE CLINTON
RESOLUTION WHICH HAD 100
SENATORS SUPPORTING IT THE LAST
TIME THIS BODY CONSIDERED
IMPEACHMENT. IT REQUIRES THE
HOUSE MANAGERS TO STAND UP
AND MAKE THEIR OPENING STATEMENT
AND MAKE THEIR CASE. THEY HAVE
DELAYED BRINGING THIS
IMPEACHMENT TO THIS HOUSE FOR 33
DAYS. 33 DAYS TO THIS BODY AND
IT IS TIME TO START WITH THIS
TRIAL. IT IS A FAIR PROCESS.
THEY WILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO STAND UP AND MAKE OPENING
STATEMENTS AND THEY WILL GET 24
HOURS TO DO THAT. THEN, THE
PRESIDENT'S ATTORNEYS WILL HAVE
A CHANCE TO RESPOND AND AFTER
THAT, ALL OF YOU WILL HAVE 16
HOURS TO ASK WHATEVER QUESTIONS
YOU HAVE OF EITHER SIDE. ONCE
THAT IS FINISHED AND YOU HAVE
ALL THAT INFORMATION, WE WILL
PROCEED TO THE QUESTION OF
WITNESSES AND SOME OF THE MORE
DIFFICULT QUESTIONS THAT WILL
COME BEFORE THIS BODY. WE ARE IN
FAVOR OF THIS AND WE BELIEVE
THAT ONCE YOU HEAR THOSE INITIAL
PRESENTATIONS, THE ONLY
CONCLUSION WILL BE THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS DONE ABSOLUTELY
NOTHING WRONG. THESE ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT DO NOT BEGIN TO
APPROACH THE STANDARD REQUIRED
BY THE CONSTITUTION AND THE FACT
THAT THEY THEMSELVES WILL
ESTABLISH NOTHING BEYOND THOSE
ARTICLES.
YOU WILL LOOK AT THOSE ARTICLES
ALONE AND DETERMINED THAT THERE
IS ABSOLUTELY NO CASE. WE
RESPECTFULLY ASK YOU TO ADOPT
THIS RESOLUTION SO THAT WE CAN
BEGIN WITH THIS PROCESS. IT IS
LONG PAST TIME
TO START THIS PROCEEDING AND WE
ARE HERE TODAY TO DO IT AND WE
HOPE THAT THE HOUSE MANAGERS
WILL AGREE WITH US AND BEGIN
THIS PROCEEDING TODAY. WE
RESERVE THE REMAINDER OF OUR
TIME FOR REBUTTAL.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE AND
SENATORS  AND COUNSEL FOR THE
PRESIDENT AND HOUSE MANAGERS ON
BEHALF OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES RISE IN
OPPOSITION TO LEADER McCONNELL'S
RESOLUTION. LET ME BEGIN BY
SUMMARIZING WHY. LAST WEEK WE
CAME BEFORE YOU TO PRESENT
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT AGAINST
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR ONLY THE THIRD TIME
IN OUR HISTORY. THOSE ARTICLES
CHARGE PRESIDENT DONALD JOHN
TRUMP WAS
OBJECTION OF CONGRESS AND THE
MISCONDUCT SET OUT THOSE
ARTICLES IS THE MOST SERIOUS
EVER CHARGED AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT. THE FIRST ARTICLE
ABUSE OF POWER CHARGES THE
PRESIDENT WAS SOLICITING A
FOREIGN POWER TO HELP HIM CHEAT
IN THE NEXT ELECTION. MOREOVER,
IT ALLEGES THAT WE WILL PROVE
THAT HE SOUGHT TO COERCE UKRAINE
AND TO HELP BY WITHHOLDING
OFFICIAL ACTS, TWO OFFICIAL
ACTS. A MEETING THAT THE NEW
PRESIDENT DESPERATELY SOUGHT AT
THE WHITE HOUSE
TO SHOW THE WORLD AND THE
RUSSIANS THAT THE UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT HAD A GOOD
RELATIONSHIP WITH HIS MOST
IMPORTANT PATRON, THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES. EVEN MORE,
PRESIDENT TRUMP LEGALLY WITHHELD
ALMOST $400 MILLION IN TAXPAYER
FUNDS
AND A NATION AT WAR WITH OUR
RUSSIAN ADVERSARIES TO COMPEL
UKRAINE TO HELP HIM CHEAT IN THE
ELECTIONS. ASTONISHINGLY, THE
PRESENT TRIAL BRIEF FILED
YESTERDAY CONTENDS THAT EVEN IF
THIS CONDUCT IS PROVED THAT
THERE IS NOTHING THAT THE HOUSE
OR THE SENATE MAY DO ABOUT IT.
IT IS THE APPARENT BELIEF THAT
UNDER ARTICLE 2 HE CAN DO
ANYTHING HE WANTS NO MATTER HOW
CORRUPT OUTFITTED IN GAUDY
CLOTHING.
YET, WHEN THE FOUNDERS WROTE THE
IMPEACHMENT CLAUSE, THEY HAD
PRECISELY THIS TYPE OF
MISCONDUCT IN MIND. CONDUCT THAT
ABUSES THE POWER OF HIS OFFICE
FOR PERSONAL BENEFIT THAT
UNDERMINES OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
AND INVITES FOREIGN INTERFERENCE
IN OUR DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. IT IS
THE TRIFECTA OF CONSTITUTIONAL
MISCONDUCT JUSTIFYING
IMPEACHMENT. IN ARTICLE TWO, THE
PRESIDENT IS CHARGED WITH OTHER
MISCONDUCT THAT WOULD ALARM THE
FOUNDERS. THE FULL AND COMPLETE
AN ABSOLUTE OBSTRUCTION OF A
COEQUAL BRANCH OF GOVERNMENT.
DURING THE COURSE OF THE
IMPEACHMENT INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PRESIDENT ON MISCONDUCT,
THIS IS EVERY BIT AS DESTRUCTIVE
OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER AS
THE MISCONDUCT CHARGE IN THE
FIRST ARTICLE.
IF A PRESIDENT CAN OBSTRUCT HIS
OWN INVESTIGATION AND
EFFECTIVELY NOTIFY A POWER, THE
CONSTITUTION GIVES SOLELY TO
CONGRESS AND INDEED THE ULTIMATE
POWER, THE ULTIMATE POWER IS TO
PREVENT PRESIDENTIAL MISCONDUCT
AND THE PRESENT PLACES HIMSELF
BEYOND ACCOUNTABILITY OR ABOVE
THE LAW. CANNOT BE INDICTED OR
IMPEACHED. IT MAKES HIM A
MONARCH. THE VERY EVIL AGAINST
WHICH OUR CONSTITUTION AND THE
BALANCE OF POWERS WAS
DESIGNED TO GUARD AGAINST.
SHORTLY, THE DISCHARGES WILL
BEGIN AND WHEN IT HAS
CONCLUDED, YOU WILL BE ASKED TO
MAKE SEVERAL DETERMINATIONS. DID
THE HOUSE PROOF THAT THE
PRESIDENT ABUSE HIS POWER TO
HELP HIM CHEAT IN THE NEXT
ELECTION ENDED HE OBSTRUCT IN
THE INVESTIGATION INTO HIS OWN
MISCONDUCT BY ORDERING HIS
AGENCIES AND OFFICERS TO REFUSE
TO COOPERATE IN ANY WAY WITH ANY
OTHER MEANS.
IF THE HOUSE HAS PROVED ITS CASE
, YOU WILL HAVE TO ANSWER AT
LEAST ONE CRITICAL QUESTION.
DOES THESE HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS REQUIRED THE
CONVICTION AND REMOVAL OF THE
PRESIDENT? WE BELIEVE IT DOES
AND THAT THE CONSTITUTION
REQUIRES THAT IT BE SO OR THE
POWER OF IMPEACHMENT MUST BE
DEEMED A CASUALTY AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE LEFT
UNPROTECTED WOULD ABUSE HIS
POWER FOR THE VERY PURPOSE OF
CORRUPTING THE ONLY OTHER METHOD
OF ACCOUNTABILITY, OUR ELECTIONS
THEMSELVES. SO, YOU WILL VOTE TO
FIND THE PRESIDENT GUILTY OR NOT
GUILTY. TO FIND HIS CONDUCT
IMPEACHABLE OR NOT IMPEACHABLE.
I WOULD SUBMIT TO YOU THAT THESE
ARE NOT THE MOST IMPORTANT
DECISIONS YOU WILL MAKE. HOW CAN
THAT BE? HOW CAN ANY DECISION
YOU WILL MAKE BE MORE IMPORTANT
IN REMOVING THE PRESIDENT OR NOT
REMOVING THE PRESIDENT? I
BELIEVE THE MOST IMPORTANT
DECISION IN THIS CASE IS THE ONE
YOU WILL MAKE TODAY, THE MOST
IMPORTANT QUESTION IS THE ONE
YOU MUST ANSWER TODAY, WHILE THE
PRESIDENT AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE GET A FAIR TRIAL? WILL
THERE BE
A FAIR TRIAL? I SUBMIT THAT THIS
IS AN EVEN MORE IMPORTANT
QUESTION THAN HOW YOU VOTE ON
GUILT OR INNOCENCE BECAUSE
WHETHER WE HAVE A FAIR TRIAL
WILL DETERMINE WHETHER YOU HAVE
A BASIS TO RENDER A FAIR AND
IMPARTIAL VERDICT. IT IS
FOUNDATIONAL AND THIS IS THE
STRUCTURE WHAT OTHER
DECISIONS WILL REST. IF YOU ONLY
SEE PART OF THE EVIDENCE OR ONLY
ALLOW ONE SIDE OR THE OTHER A
CHANCE TO PRESENT THEIR FULL
CASE, YOUR VERDICT WILL BE
PREDETERMINED BY THE BIAS AND
THE PROCEEDING. IF THE DEFENDANT
IS NOT ALLOWED TO INTRODUCE
EVIDENCE, THAT IS NOT A FAIR
TRIAL AND SO FOR THE
PROSECUTION. IF THE HOUSE CANNOT
CALL WITNESSES OR INTEREST
DOCUMENTS OR EVIDENCE, THAT IS
NOT FAIR TRIAL. IT IS NOT REALLY
A TRIAL AT ALL. AMERICANS ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY ARE WATCHING US
RIGHT NOW.
IMAGINE THEIR OWN JURY DUTY.
IMAGINE THAT THE JUDGE WANTS
TO WALK INTO THE COURTROOM AND
SAYS SHE HAS BEEN TALKING TO THE
DEFENDANT AND AT THE REQUEST,
THE JUDGE HAS AGREED NOT TO LET
THE PROSECUTION CALL ANY
WITNESSES. OR INTRODUCE ANY
DOCUMENTS. THE JUDGE AND THE
DEFENDANT HAVE AGREED THAT THE
PROSECUTOR MAY ONLY READ TO THE
JURY THE DRIED TRANSCRIPT OF THE
JURY PROCEEDINGS AND THAT IS IT.
HAS ANYONE EVER HEARD A JUDGE
DESCRIBE SUCH A PROCEEDING AND
CALL THAT A FAIR TRIAL? OF
COURSE NOT. THAT IS NOT A FAIR
TRIAL. IT IS A MOCKERY OF A
TRIAL. UNDER THE CONSTITUTION,
THIS PROCEEDING AND THE ONE WE
ARE IN RIGHT NOW
IS THE TRIAL. THIS IS NOT AN
APPEAL AND YOU ARE NOT AN
APPELLATE COURT JUDGE. OKAY, ONE
OF YOU IS.
UNLESS THIS TRIAL WILL BE
DIFFERENT FROM EVERY OTHER
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OR ANY KIND OF
TRIAL FOR THAT MATTER, YOU MUST
ALLOW THE PROSECUTION AND
DEFENSE OF THE HOUSE MANAGER AND
THE LAWYERS TO CALL RELEVANT
WITNESSES.
YOU MUST IMPARTIALLY DO JUSTICE
AS YOUR OATH REQUIRES SO WHAT
DOES A FAIR TRIAL LOOK LIKE IN
THE CONTEXT OF IMPEACHMENT? THE
SHORT ANSWER IS IT LOOKS LIKE
EVERY OTHER TRIAL. THEY SHOULD
ALLOW THE HOUSE MANAGERS TO
OBTAIN DOCUMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN
WITHHELD. FIRST, NOT LAST
BECAUSE DOCUMENTS WILL INFORM
THE DECISION ABOUT WHICH ARE
MOST IMPORTANT TO CALL AND WHEN
IT IS CALLED, THE EVIDENCE WILL
BE AVAILABLE AND MUST BE
AVAILABLE TO QUESTION THEM WITH.
ANY OTHER ORDER MAKES NO SENSE.
NEXT, THEY SHOULD ALLOW TO CALL
WITNESSES AND THEN THE PRESIDENT
SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO DO THE SAME
IN ANY REBUTTAL WITNESSES AND
WHEN THE TRIAL ENDS, THE PARTIES
ARGUE
THE CASE. YOU DELIVERY AND
RENDER A VERDICT. IF THERE IS A
DISPUTE TO WHETHER SOMETHING IS
RELEVANT OR MATERIAL, THE CHIEF
JUSTICE
WOULD RULE ON THE ISSUE OF
MATERIAL ARTIE. WHY SHOULD THIS
BE DIFFERENT THAN ANY OTHER
TRIAL? THE SHORT ANSWER IS IT
SHOULDN'T.
LEADER McCONNELL'S RESOLUTION
WOULD TURN THE TRIAL PROCESS ON
ITS HEAD.'S RESOLUTION REQUIRES
THE HOUSE TO PROVE ITS CASE
WITHOUT WITNESSES OR DOCUMENTS
AND ONLY AFTER IT IS DONE WHILE
SUCH QUESTIONS BE ENTERTAINED
WITH NO GUARANTEE THAT ANY
WITNESSES OR ANY DOCUMENTS WILL
BE ALLOWED EVEN THEN. THAT
PROCESS MAKES NO SENSE. WHAT IS
THE HARM OF WAITING UNTIL THE
END OF THE TRIAL AND OF KICKING
THE CAN DOWN THE ROAD ON THE
QUESTION OF DOCUMENTS AND
WITNESSES? ASSIGNS THE FACT THAT
IT IS COMPLETELY BACKWARDS AND
THE FACT THAT THE DOCUMENTS
WOULD INFORM THE DECISION ON
WHICH WITNESSES AND OPEN
QUESTIONING, THE HARM IS THIS.
YOU WILL NOT HAVE ANY OF THE
EVIDENCE THE PRESIDENT CONTINUES
TO CONCEAL THROUGHOUT MOST OR
ALL OF THE TRIAL. ALTHOUGH THE
EVIDENCE AGAINST THE PRESENT IS
ALREADY OVERWHELMING, YOU MAY
NEVER KNOW THE FULL SCOPE OF THE
PRESENCE MISCONDUCT OR THOSE
AROUND HIM. NEITHER WILL THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. THE CHARGES
INVOLVE THE SACRIFICE OF OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY AT HOME AND
ABROAD AND A THREAT TO THE
INTEGRITY OF THE NEXT ELECTION.
IF THERE ARE ADDITIONAL REMEDIAL
STEPS I NEED TO BE TAKEN AFTER
THE CONVICTION, THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE MUST KNOW ABOUT IT.
IF AS THE PUBLIC ALREADY JADED
BY EXPERIENCE HAS COME TO SIX
BACKED THAT THIS RESOLUTION IS
REALLY THE FIRST STEP OF AN
EFFORT CASTRATED BY THE WHITE
HOUSE TO REST THE TRIAL AND HIDE
THE EVIDENCE AND RENDER A FAST
VERDICT OR WORSE A FAST
DISMISSAL, TO MAKE THIS GO AWAY
AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE AND TO
COVER UP MISDEEDS, THAN THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WILL BE DEPRIVED
OF A FAIR TRIAL AND NEVER LEARN
HOW DEEP THE CORRUPTION GOES OR
WHAT OTHER RISK TO OUR SECURITY
AND ELECTIONS REMAIN HIDDEN.
THE HARM WILL ALSO INDOOR FOR
THIS BONNIE AND IF THEY ALLOW
THE PRESIDENT TO GET AWAY WITH
SUCH
EXTENSIVE OBSTRUCTION, IT WILL
AFFECT THE SENATE POWER OF
SUBPOENA AND OVERSIGHT JUST AS
MUCH AS THE HOUSE. THE SENATE'S
ABILITY TO CONDUCT OVERSIGHT
WILL BE TO THE DESIRES OF THIS
PRESIDENT AND FUTURE PRESIDENTS
WHETHER HE OR SHE DECIDES THEY
WANT TO COOPERATE WITH AN
INVESTIGATION OR ANOTHER
IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY AND TRIAL. OUR SYSTEM OF
CHECKS AND BALANCES WILL BE
BROKEN AND PRESIDENTS WILL
BECOME ACCOUNTABLE TO NO ONE. IT
HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT McCONNELL
ALREADY HAS THE VOTES TO PASS
THIS RESOLUTION. WE DID NOT SEE
THAT UNTIL LAST NIGHT AND HAS
BEEN CHANGED EVEN AS OF MOMENTS
AGO. THEY SAY THAT LEADER
McCONNELL IS A GOOD VOTE
COUNTER. NONETHELESS, I HOPE HE
IS WRONG. NOT JUST BECAUSE I
THINK THIS PROCESS IS BACKWARDS
AND DESIGNED WITH THE RESULT IN
MIND AND THAT THE RESULT IS NOT
A FAIR TRIAL BUT I HOPE HE IS
WRONG BECAUSE WHATEVER SENATORS
MAY HAVE SAID OR PLEDGED OR
COMMITTED HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED BY
AN EVENT OF CONSTITUTIONAL
DIMENSION. YOU HAVE ALL NOW
SWORN AN OATH. NOT TO EACH OTHER
AND NOT TO THE LEGISLATIVE
LEADERSHIP AND NOT TO THE
MANAGERS OR EVEN THE CHIEF
JUSTICE. YOU HAVE SWORN AN OATH
TO DO IMPARTIAL JUSTICE. THAT
OATH BINDS YOU. IT SUPERSEDES
ALL ELSE. MANY OF YOU IN THE
SENATE AND MANY OF US IN THE
HOUSE HAVE MADE STATEMENTS ABOUT
THE PRESIDENT'S CONDUCT. THIS
TRIAL OR THIS MOTION OR
EXPECTATIONS BUT NONE OF THAT
MATTERS NOW. THAT IS ALL IN THE
PAST AND NOTHING MATTERS NOW BUT
THE OATH TO DO IMPARTIAL
JUSTICE. THAT OATH REQUIRES A
FAIR TRIAL. FAIR TO THE
PRESIDENT AND FAIR TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. IS THAT REALLY
POSSIBLE? OR IS THE FOUNDERS
FEAR AS EXCESSIVE PARTISANSHIP
TO MAKE THAT NOW IMPOSSIBLE?
ONE WAY TO FIND OUT WHAT A FAIR
TRIAL SHOULD LOOK LIKE DEVOID OF
PARTISAN CONSIDERATION IS TO ASK
YOURSELVES HOW WOULD YOU
STRUCTURE THE TRIAL IF YOU
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT YOUR PARTY WAS
AND YOU DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THE
PARTY OF THE PRESIDENT WAS?
WOULD IT MAKE SENSE TO YOU TO
PUT THAT TRIAL FIRST AND THEN
DECIDE ON WITNESSES AND EVIDENCE
LATER? WOULD THAT BE FAIR TO
BOTH SIDES? I HAVE TO THINK THAT
YOUR ANSWER WOULD BE NO. LET ME
BE BLUNT. LET ME BE VERY BLUNT.
RIGHT NOW, A GREAT MANY AND
PERHAPS MAYBE MOST AMERICANS DO
NOT BELIEVE THERE WILL BE A FAIR
TRIAL. THEY DON'T BELIEVE THE
SENATE WILL BE IMPARTIAL. THEY
BELIEVE THE RESULT IS PRECOOKED.
THE PRESIDENT WILL BE ACQUITTED.
NOT BECAUSE HE IS INNOCENT. HE
IS NOT. BUT BECAUSE THE SENATORS
WILL VOTE BY PARTY AND HE HAS
THE VOTES TO PREVENT THE
EVIDENCE FROM COMING OUT AND TO
MAKE SURE THE PUBLIC NEVER SEES
IT. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WANT A
FAIR TRIAL. THEY WANT TO BELIEVE
THEIR SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT IS
STILL CAPABLE OF RISING TO THE
OCCASION.
THEY WANT TO BELIEVE THAT WE CAN
RISE ABOVE PARTY AND DO WHAT IS
BEST FOR THE COUNTRY BUT A GREAT
MANY AMERICANS DON'T BELIEVE IT
WILL HAPPEN. LET'S PROVE THEM
WRONG. LET'S PROVE THEM WRONG.
HOW? BY CONVICTING THE
PRESIDENT? NO, NOT BY CONVICTION
ALONE. BY CONVICTING HIM IF THE
HOUSE PROVES ITS CASE AND ONLY
IF THE HOUSE PROVES ITS CASE BUT
BY LETTING THE HOUSE PROVE ITS
CASE.
BY LETTING THE HOUSE CALL
WITNESSES AND LETTING THE HOUSE
OBTAINING DOCUMENTS AND LETTING
THE HOUSE DECIDE HOW TO PRESENT
ITS OWN CASE AND NOT DECIDING IT
FOR US. BY AGREEING TO A FAIR
TRIAL. NOW, LET'S TURN TO THE
PRECISE
TERMS OF THE RESOLUTION AND
HISTORY OF IMPEACHMENT TRIALS
AND WHAT FAIRNESS AND
IMPARTIALITY REQUIRES.
ALTHOUGH WE HAVE MANY CONCERNS
ABOUT THE RESOLUTION, I WILL
BEGIN WITH THE SINGLE BIGGEST
FLAW. THE RESOLUTION DOES NOT
ENSURE THAT SUBPOENAS WILL IN
FACT BE ISSUED FOR ADDITIONAL
EVIDENCE THAT THE SENATE AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE SHOULD HAVE AND
THAT THE PRESIDENT CONTINUES TO
BLOCK AND FREELY DECIDE GUILT OR
INNOCENCE. MOREOVER, IT
GUARANTEES THAT SUBPOENAS WILL
NOT BE ISSUED NOW WHEN THEY
WOULD BE MOST VALUABLE TO THE
SENATE AND THE PARTIES AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. ACCORDING TO
THE RESOLUTION THE LEADER HAS
INTRODUCED, THE SENATE RECEIVES
FILINGS FROM THE PARTIES AND
NEXT THEY HEAR LENGTHY
PRESENTATIONS FROM THE HOUSE
AND THE PRESIDENT'S LAWYERS HAVE
DESCRIBED THIS IN OPENING
STATEMENTS BUT LET'S NOT KID
OURSELVES.
THAT IS THE TRIAL THAT THEY
CONTEMPLATE. THE OPENING
STATEMENTS ARE THE TRIAL. THEY
WILL EITHER BE MOST OF THE TRIAL
OR ALL OF THE TRIAL. IF THE
SENATE VOTES TO THE PRIVATE SELF
OF WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS, THE
OPENING STATEMENT WILL BE THE
END OF THE TRIAL TO SAY LET'S
HAVE OPENING STATEMENTS AND THEN
WE WILL SEE MEANS OF'S HAVE THE
TRIAL AND MAYBE WE CAN SLEEP
THIS UNDER THE RUG. YOU WILL
HEAR THE LENGTHY PRESENTATIONS
FROM THE HOUSE AND THERE WILL BE
A QUESTION-AND-ANSWER PERIOD AND
THEN AND ONLY THEN AFTER THE
TRIAL IS OVER AND AFTER THE
BRIEFS HAVE BEEN FILED AND
ARGUMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE AND
CENTERS HAVE ASKED ALL THEIR
QUESTIONS, ONLY THEN WILL THE
SENATE CONSIDER WHETHER TO
SUBPOENA CRUCIAL DOCUMENTS AND
WITNESS TESTIMONY THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS DESPERATELY TRIED
TO CONCEAL.
DOCUMENTS EYEWITNESS TESTIMONY
THAT UNLIKE THE CLINTON TRIAL
HAVE NOT YET BEEN SEEN OR HEARD.
IT IS TRUE THAT THE RECORD
COMPILED IS OVERWHELMING AND
THEY ARTIE COMPEL THE COLLECTION
OF THE PRESIDENT IN THE FACE OF
UNPRECEDENTED RESISTANCE AND
THERE IS A POWERFUL CASE
AND EVIDENCE OF THE HIGH CRIMES
AND MISDEMEANORS INCLUDES DIRECT
EVIDENCE AND TESTIMONY OF
OFFICIALS BUT ARE UNWILLING AND
UNWITTING IN THIS SCHEME.
THEY SAW IT FOR WHAT IT WAS AND
YET THERE IS MORE EVIDENCE
RELATIVE THAT CONTINUE AND IT
WOULD FLUSH OUT THE FULL EXTENT
OF THE MISCONDUCT AND THOSE
AROUND HIM. WE HAVE SEEN THAT
OVER THE PAST FEW WEEKS, NEW
EVIDENCES CONTINUE TO COME TO
LIGHT AS A NONPARTISAN
ACCOUNTABILITY HAS A TERMINAL TO
HOLD ON MILITARY TO UKRAINE WAS
ILLEGAL AND BROKE THE LAW. AS
JUMBLED AND HAS OFFERED TO
TESTIFY IN THE TRIAL IS ONE OF
THE PRESIDENTS AGENTS AND
PRODUCE DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE
THAT CLARIFIES MR. GIULIANI'S
EVIDENCE AND COOPERATES DR.
SOLOMON'S TESTIMONY THAT
EVERYONE WAS IN THE LOOP. AS
DOCUMENTS RELEASED UNDER THE
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION THAT
DOCUMENTED THE ALARM THAT THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE DEFENSE
ILLEGALLY WITHHELD MILITARY
SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE AND THE LA
AT WAR WITH RUSSIA
WITHOUT EXPLANATION. AS A SENIOR
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
OFFICIAL MICHAEL DUFFY
INSTRUCTED OFFICIALS ON JULY 25
, 90 MINUTES AFTER PRESIDENT
TRUMP SPOKE BY PHONE WITH
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY
THAT THEY SHOULD PAUSE ALL
OBLIGATION OF UKRAINE  MILITARY
ASSISTANCE UNDER
ITS PRUDENCE. 90 MINUTES AFTER
THAT CALL. THEY SAID "GIVEN THE
SENSITIVE NATURE OF THE REQUEST,
I APPRECIATE YOU KEEPING THAT
INFORMATION CLOSELY HELD TO
THOSE THAT NEED TO KNOW TO
EXECUTE THE DIRECTION." THE
EVIDENCE IS ALREADY MORE THAN
SUFFICIENT BUT THERE IS NO
RATIONAL BASIS FOR THE SENATE TO
THE PRIVATE SELF OF ALL RELEVANT
INFORMATION IN MAKING SUCH A
CONSEQUENTIAL JUDGMENT.
MOREOVER AS THE PRESENT ANSWER
TO HIS SUMMONS AND TRIAL BRIEF
MADE CLEAR, THE PRESIDENT NOW
INTENDS TO CONTEST THE FACT THAT
THERE WILL BE A FALSE AND
MISLEADING WAY THAT THE
PRESIDENT SHOULD NOT HAVE IT
BOTH WAYS. HE SHOULD NOT BE
PERMITTED TO CLAIM THE FACTS
UNCOVERED ARE WRONG WHILE ALSO
CONCEALING MOUNTAINS OF EVIDENCE
THAT THEY ARE PRECISELY ON THOSE
FACTS. IF THE BODY SEEKS
IMPARTIAL JUSTICE, IT SHOULD
ENSURE THAT SUBPOENAS ARE ISSUED
AND ISSUED NOW BEFORE THERE ARE
EXTENDED PROCEEDINGS BASED ON
THE RECORD THAT EVERY PERSON IN
THIS ROOM AND EVERY AMERICAN
WATCHING AT HOME KNOWS DOES NOT
INCLUDE DOCUMENTS AND WITNESS
TESTIMONY THAT IT SHOULD BECAUSE
THE PRESIDENT WOULD NOT ALLOW IT
TO BE SO. COMPLYING WITH THESE
SUBPOENAS WOULD NOT IMPOSE A
BURDEN THAT WAS NARROWLY
TAILORED AND TARGETED
AT THE PRESIDENT HAS CONCEALED.
THE SENATE DESERVES TO SEE THE
DOCUMENTS FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
AND THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE. THESE
AGENCIES ALREADY SHOULD HAVE
COLLECTED AND PRESERVED THESE
DOCUMENTS
IN RESPONSE TO HOW SUBPOENAS.
INDEED, IN SOME CASES, AGENCIES
HAVE ALREADY PRODUCED DOCUMENTS
IN LAWSUITS AND HEAVILY
REDACTED FORMS. WITNESSES WITH
DIRECT KNOWLEDGE OR INVOLVEMENT
SHOULD BE HEARD AND THAT
INCLUDES THE PRESENCE ACTING
CHIEF OF STAFF AND HIS FORMER
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR, JOHN
BOLTON WHO HAS PUBLICLY OFFERED
TO TESTIFY AND TWO SENIOR
OFFICIALS IMPLEMENTING THE
PRESIDENTS FREEZE ON THE
UKRAINE'S MILITARY AID
AND HAVE RELEVANT TESTIMONY. WHY
NOT HEAR IT? ROBERT PLAY HER
SERVES AS A SENIOR ADVISOR AND
THE SENIOR OFFICIAL AND OTHERS
WITH DIRECT KNOWLEDGE THAT WE
RESERVE TO CALL BUT TO BEGIN THE
TRIAL. MUSLIM, THE PRESIDENT
MADE CLEAR THAT HE WOULD HAVE A
DECLARATION THAT HE WOULD LOVE
TO HAVE SECRETARY POMPEO AND NOW
FORMER CEMETERY PERIOD AND MANY
OTHER PEOPLE TESTIFY IN THE
SENATE TRIAL.
>> I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE MY
POMPEO AND MITCH AND RICK PERRY
AND MANY OTHER PEOPLE TESTIFY.
>> THE SENATE HAS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE THE
PRESIDENT UP ON HIS OFFER  AND
TO MAKE HIS SENIOR AIDES
AVAILABLE INCLUDING SECRETARIES
AREA POMPEO BUT NOW THE
PRESIDENT IS CHANGING HIS TUNE.
THE BLUSTER OF ONE OF HIS
WITNESSES TO TESTIFY IS OVER
. NOTWITHSTANDING THE FACT THAT
HE HAS NEVER ASSERTED A CLAIM OF
PRIVILEGE DURING THE COURSE OF
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS. HE THREATENS TO
INVOKE ONE NOW IN A LAST-DITCH
EFFORT TO KEEP THE REST OF THE
TRUTH FROM COMING OUT. THE
PRESIDENT AND HIS LAWYERS HERE
TO CLAIM THAT THESE WITNESSES OR
OTHERS CANNOT POSSIBLY TESTIFY
BECAUSE IT INVOLVES NATIONAL
SECURITY. NEVERMIND THAT IT WAS
HIS ACTIONS IN WITHHOLDING
MILITARY AID
THAT THREATENED OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY IN THE FIRST PLACE.
NEVERMIND THAT THE MOST
IMPEACHABLE AND SERIOUS OFFENSES
WILL ALWAYS INVOLVE NATIONAL
SECURITY BECAUSE THEY WILL
INVOLVE OTHER NATIONS AND THAT
MISCONDUCT BASED ON FORD
INTEGUMENT WAS WHAT THE FRAMERS
FEARED MOST.
THE ABSURD ARGUMENTS AMOUNTS TO
THIS, WE MUST ENDANGER NATIONAL
SECURITY TO PROTECT NATIONAL
SECURITY AND MAKE THE CONDUCT
BEYOND THE REACH OF IMPEACHMENT
POWER IF WE ARE TO SAVE THE
PRESIDENCY.
THIS IS DANGEROUS NONSENSE AS
JUSTICES OF THE SUPREME COURT
HAVE UNDERSCORED THE
CONSTITUTION IS NOT A SUICIDE
PACT. LET US TURN FROM THE
ABSTRACT
AND LET ME SHOW YOU JUST ONE
EXAMPLE OF WHAT THE PRESIDENT IS
HIDING IN THE NAME OF NATIONAL
SECURITY. THERE IS A DOCUMENT IN
WHICH THE PRESIDENT REFUSED TO
TURN OVER IN WHICH THE TOP
DIPLOMAT SAYS TO TWO OTHER
APPOINTEES OF THE PRESIDENT AS I
SAID ON THE PHONE, I THINK IT IS
CRAZY TO WITHHOLD SECURITY
ASSISTANCE OR HELP WITH THE
POLITICAL CAMPAIGN.
THE MAGICIAN REFUSES TO TURN
OVER THAT DOCUMENT AND SO MANY
MORE. WE ONLY KNOW ABOUT ITS
EXISTENCE AND HAVE ONLY SEEN ITS
CONTENT BECAUSE IT WAS TURNED
OVER BY A COOPERATING WITNESS.
THIS IS WHAT THE PRESIDENT WOULD
HIDE FROM YOU AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE AND IN THE NAME OF
NATIONAL SECURITY, HE WOULD HIDE
GRAPHIC EVIDENCE OF HIS
DANGEROUS MISCONDUCT. THE ONLY
QUESTION IS WILL YOU LET HIM?
LAST YEAR, THEY SAID
ARTICLE 2 OF THE CONSTITUTION
WILL ALLOW HIM TO DO ANYTHING HE
WANTED AND EVIDENTLY BELIEVING
THAT ARTICLE 2 EMPOWERED HIM TO
DEFY A COLLEGIATE BRANCH BUT
ALSO DECLARED HE WILL FIGHT OFF
SUBPOENAS. LET'S HEAR THE
PRESIDENT'S OWN WORDS.
>> THAN I HAVE IN ARTICLE 2
WHERE I HAVE THE RIGHT TO DO
WHATEVER I WANTED AS PRESIDENT.
>> TRUE TO HIS PLEDGE TO
OBSTRUCT CONGRESS WHEN PRESIDENT
TRUMP FACE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY,
HE ORDER THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH TO
DEFY EVERY SINGLE REQUEST ON
EVERY SINGLE SUBPOENA. HE ISSUED
THIS ORDER THROUGH THE WHITE
HOUSE COUNSEL ON OCTOBER 8 IN
THE SAME COUNSEL THAT STOOD
BEFORE YOU A MOMENT AGO TO
DEFEND THE PRESENCE MISCONDUCT
AND HE THEN INFORMED IT AGAIN ON
A RALLY ON OCTOBER 10. FOLLOWING
THAT CATEGORICAL OFFER, WE NEVER
RECEIVED KEY DOCUMENTS AND IT IS
IMPORTANT TO NOTE AND REFUSING
TO RESPOND TO CONGRESS, THE
PRESIDENT DID NOT MAKE ANY
FORMAL CLAIM OF PRIVILEGE EVER
BUT INSTEAD, THE LETTER STATED
THAT THE PRESIDENT WOULD
WITHHOLD ALL EVIDENCE IN THE
EXECUTIVE BRANCH UNLESS THE
HOUSE SURRENDERED TO DEMANDS
THAT WOULD EFFECTIVELY PLACE
PRESIDENT TRUMP IN CHARGE OF THE
INQUIRY INTO HIS OWN MISCONDUCT.
NEEDLESS TO SAY, THAT WAS A
NONSTARTER
AND DESIGNED TO BE SO. THE
PRESIDENT WAS DETERMINED TO
OBSTRUCT CONGRESS NO MATTER WHAT
WE DID AND MISCONDUCT SINCE HIS
ATTACKS ON THE IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY AND WITNESSES AND THEY
HAVE AFFIRMED
THAT THE PRESENT NEVER HAD ANY
INTENTION TO COOPERATE UNDER ANY
CIRCUMSTANCE AND WHY? BECAUSE
EVIDENCE AND TESTIMONY WOULD
ONLY FURTHER PROVE GUILT.
THE INNOCENT DO NOT ACT THIS
WAY.
SIMPLY STATED, THIS TRIAL SHOULD
NOT AWARD THE PRESENCE OF
SECTION BY ALLOWING HIM TO
CONTROL EVIDENCE THAT IS SEEN
AND WHEN IT IS SEEN AND WHAT
EVIDENCE WILL REMAIN HIDDEN.
THE DOCUMENTS THE PRESIDENT
SEEKS TO CONCEAL INCLUDE WHITE
HOUSE RECORDS INCLUDING RECORDS
ABOUT THE UNLAWFUL HOLD ON
MILITARY AID AND THE STATE
DEPARTMENT RECORDS INCLUDING
TEXT MESSAGES AND MESSAGES
EXCHANGED BY THAT DEPARTMENT AND
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS AND NOTES BY
CAREER OFFICIALS AS THEY SAW
THAT SCHEME UNFOLD IN REAL TIME.
ON BE RECORDS TO FABRICATE AN
AFTER-THE-FACT RATIONALE FOR THE
PRESIDENT ORDERS WITH OBJECTIONS
THAT THE ORDERS VIOLATED THE LAW
AND DEFENSE DEPARTMENT RECORDS
REFLECTING BAFFLEMENT AND ALARM
AT THE PRESENT SUSPENDED
MILITARY AID TO A KEY SECURITY
PARTNER WITHOUT EXPLANATION.
MANY AIDS HAVE FOLLOWED ORDERS
AND REFUSED TO TESTIFY INCLUDING
CENTRAL FIGURES IN THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY INCLUDING
THE WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF
IN THE FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR AND MANY OTHERS WITH
RELEVANT TESTIMONY LIKE ROBERT
BLAIR AND MICHAEL DUFFY. MR.
BLAIR SERVES AS A SENIOR ADVISOR
TO THE ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF AND
WORKED DIRECTLY WITH MR. DUFFY
IN THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET TO CARRY OUT THE ORDER TO
FREEZE VITAL MILITARY AND
ASSISTANCE. THE TRUMPET OF
INSTRUCTION HAS REFUSED TO
DISCLOSE MEDICATIONS EVEN THOUGH
WE KNOW FROM AND TESTIMONY IN
PUBLIC REPORTING AND EVEN
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION THAT THEY
WERE INSTRUMENTAL IN OF MANY THE
HOLD AND EXTENDING IT AT THE
EXPRESS DIRECTION
EVEN AS CAREER OFFICIALS WARNED
ACCURATELY THAT DOING SO WOULD
VIOLATE THE LAW.
THE PRESIDENT HAS ALSO MADE THE
INSUPPORTABLE CLAIM THAT THE
HOUSE SHOULD'VE FORCED SUBPOENAS
IN COURT AND ALLOWED THE
PRESIDENT TO DELAY THE
IMPEACHMENT FOR YEARS AND IF WE
HAD DONE SO, WE WOULD'VE
ABDICATED THE DUTY TO ACT ON THE
OVERWHELMING FACTS BEFORE US AND
THE EVIDENCE THE PRESIDENT WAS
SEEKING TO SHEET
IN THE ELECTION. WE CANNOT
ENGAGE IN A COURT PROCESS WHILE
THE PRESIDENT CONTINUED TO
THREATEN THE SANCTITY OF OUR
ELECTIONS. RESORTING TO THE
COURSE IS ALSO INCONSISTENT WITH
THE CONSTITUTION THAT GIVES THE
HOUSE THE SOLE POWER OF
IMPEACHMENT. IF THE HOUSE WERE
COMPELLED TO EXHAUST ALL LEGAL
REMEDIES BEFORE IMPEACHING, IT
WOULD INTERPOSE THE COURTS OR
THE DECISION OF A SINGLE JUDGE
BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE POWER
TO IMPEACH. MOREOVER, IT WOULD
INVITE THE PRESIDENT TO HAVE HIS
OWN IMPEACHMENT BY ENDLESSLY
LITIGATING THE MATTER IN COURT
APPEALING EVERY JUDGMENT AND
ENGAGING EVERY FRIVOLOUS MOTION
OR DEVICE. INDEED, IN THIS CASE,
THE PRESIDENT'S LAWYER THAT WAS
ORDERED TO FIRE THE SPECIAL
COUNSEL AND LIE ABOUT IT WAS
SUBPOENAED IN APRIL LAST YEAR
AND THERE IS STILL NO FINAL
JUDGMENT. THE PRESIDENT MAY NOT
DEFEAT IMPEACHMENT OR
ACCOUNTABILITY BY ENGAGING IN
ENDLESS LITIGATION BUT INSTEAD
IT HAS BEEN A LONG PRACTICE OF
THE HOUSE TO COMPILE COURT
EVIDENCE NECESSARY TO REACH A
REASONABLE DECISION ABOUT
WHETHER TO IMPEACH AND THEN
BRING THE CASE HERE TO THE
SENATE FOR A FULL TRIAL AND THAT
IS EXACTLY WHAT WE DID HERE WITH
AN UNDERSTANDING THAT THE SENATE
HAS ITS OWN POWER TO COMPEL
DOCUMENTS AND TESTIMONY. IT
WOULD BE ONE THING AT THE HOUSE
SHOWED NO DOCUMENTS ALTHOUGH
EVEN THERE THE HOUSE HAS THE
SOLE RIGHT TO DETERMINE THESE
PROCEEDINGS AS LONG AS IT MAKES
THE FULL CASE TO THE HOUSE BUT
THAT IS QUITE ANOTHER WHEN THE
PRESIDENT IS THE CAUSE OF HIS
OWN COMPLAINT AND WITH THE
PRESENT WITHHOLDS DOCUMENTS AND
ATTEMPTS TO RELY ON HIS OWN
NIGHT NONCOMPLIANCE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP MADE IT CRYSTAL
CLEAR THAT WE WOULD NEVER SEE A
SINGLE DOCUMENT OR WITNESS WHEN
HE DECLARED AS WE JUST WATCHED
THAT HE WOULD FIND ALL SUBPOENAS
AND AS A MATTER OF HISTORY, IT
WOULD BE WRONG TO ASSERT THAT
THE SENATE IS UNABLE TO OBTAIN
AND REVIEW NEW EVIDENCE
REGARDLESS OF WHY EVIDENCE WAS
PRODUCED IN THE HOUSE. YOU CAN
AND SHOULD INSIST ON RECEIVING
ALL THE EVIDENCE SO YOU CAN
RENDER IMPARTIAL JUSTICE AND
EARN THE CONFIDENCE OF THE
PUBLIC IN THE SENATE'S
WILLINGNESS TO HOLD A FAIR
TRIAL. UNDER THE CONSTITUTION,
THE SENATE DOES NOT JUST VOTE ON
IMPEACHMENTS. IT DOES NOT JUST
DEBATE THEM BUT INSTEAD IT IS
COMMANDED BY THE CONSTITUTION TO
TRY ALL CASES OF IMPEACHMENT. IF
THE FOUNDERS INTENDED FOR THEM
TO TRY AND CONSIDER AN APPEAL
BASED ON THE COLD RECORD FROM
THE OTHER CHAMBER, THEY WOULD
HAVE SAID SO BUT THEY DID NOT
AND INSTEAD THEY GAVE US THE
POWER TO CHARGE AND YOU THE
POWER TO TRY ALL IMPEACHMENTS.
THE FRAMERS CHOSE THAT FOR A
REASON AS ALEXANDER HAMILTON
SAID THE SON IS GIVEN AWFUL
DISCRETION IN MATTERS OF
IMPEACHMENT AND THE CONSTITUTION
SPEAKS TO CENTERS IN THEIR
JUDICIAL CHARACTER AS THE COURT
FOR THE TRIAL OF IMPEACHMENT AND
IT REQUIRES THEM TO AIM AT REAL
DEMONSTRATIONS OF INNOCENCE OR
GUILT AND REQUIRES THEM TO DO SO
BY HOLDING A TRIAL. LISTENERS
REPEATEDLY SUBPOENAED AND SAVED
NEW DOCUMENTS AND OFTEN MANY OF
THEM ADJUDICATED AND THEY HAVE
HEARD TESTIMONY IN EVERY ONE OF
THE 15 SENATE TRIALS IN THE
HISTORY OF THIS REPUBLIC
INCLUDING THOSE FOR PRESIDENTS
AND YOU JOHNSON AND BILL
CLINTON. INDEED, WITH PRESIDENT
JOHNSON, THEY WERE PERMITTED TO
BEGIN PRESENTING EVIDENCE TO THE
SENATE
ON THE VERY FIRST DAY OF THE
TRIAL. THE HOUSE MANAGERSHAVE
HEARD FROM MANY WITNESSES
NONE MAY EVER BE.
THE TRUTH
ASK YOU TO DO WHAT THEY REFUSED
TO DO FOR THEMSELVES. THEY HAD A
COURT DATE. THEY WITHDREW THE
SUBPOENA AND EVADED THE DECISION
AND ARE ASKING YOU TO BECOME
COMPLICIT IN THE ELEVATION OF
THE COURTS. IT IS RIDICULOUS AND
WE SHOULD CALL IT OUT FOR WHAT
IT IS. OBSTRUCTION FOR GOING TO
COURT?
THAT IS AN ACT OF PATRIOTISM TO
DEFEND THE CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS
OF THE PRESIDENT BECAUSE IF THEY
CAN DO TO THE PRESIDENT, THEY
CAN DO IT TO ANY OF YOU AND ANY
AMERICAN CITIZEN AND THAT IS
WRONG. AND LARGE STRIDE WHO HAD
BEEN ADVISING THEM, I GUESS HE
DIDN'T TELL YOU IN THE CLINTON
IMPEACHMENT HE SAID IT IS
DANGEROUS TO SUGGEST THAT
INVOKING CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS
IS IMPEACHABLE. IT'S DANGEROUS.
YOU KNOW WHAT? IT IS DANGEROUS,
MR. SCHIFF.  SO, WHAT ARE WE
DOING HERE? WE HAVE THAT
HOUSE THAT COMPLETELY CONCOCTED
A PROCESS THAT WE HAVE NEVER
SEEN BEFORE AND LOCKED THE
PRESIDENT OUT.
BY THE WAY, WHILE MR. SCHIFF
GIVE DOCUMENTS? WE ASKED HIM FOR
DOCUMENTS.  WE ASKED HIM FOR
DOCUMENTS WENT CONTRARY TO HIS
PRIOR STATEMENTS, IT TURNED OUT
THAT HIS STAFF IS WORKING WITH
THE WHISTLEBLOWER. WE SAID C THE
DOCUMENTS AND RELEASE THEM TO
THE PUBLIC. WE ARE STILL
WAITING. THE IDEA THAT THEY
WOULD COME HERE AND LECTURE THE
SENATE. BY THE WAY, I WAS
SURPRISED TO HEAR -- DID YOU
REALIZE YOU WERE ON TRIAL? MR.
NOLLER IS PUTTING YOU ON TRIAL.
EVERYONE IS ON TRIAL EXCEPT FOR
THEM. IT'S RIDICULOUS.
THEY SAID IN THEIR BRIEF, WE
HAVE OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE AND
THEY ARE AFRAID TO MAKE THEIR
CASE. THINK ABOUT IT. IT'S
COMMON SENSE.
OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE TO IMPEACH
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES AND THEN THEY COME HERE
ON THE FIRST DAY AND THEY SAY WE
NEED SOME MORE EVIDENCE. LET ME
TELL YOU SOMETHING. IF I SHOWED
UP IN ANY COURT IN THIS COUNTRY
AND I SAID, MY CASES
OVERWHELMING BUT I'M NOT READY
TO GO YET. I NEED MORE EVIDENCE
BEFORE I CAN MAKE MY CASE.
I WOULD GET THROWN OUT IN TWO
SECONDS AND THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT
SHOULD HAPPEN HERE. THAT IS
EXACTLY WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN HERE.
IT'S TOO MUCH TO LISTEN TO,
ALMOST. THE HYPOCRISY OF THE
WHOLE THING.
WHAT ARE THE STAKES? WHAT ARE
THE STAKES? THERE IS AN ELECTION
IN ALMOST 9 MONTHS. MONTHS FROM
NOW THERE WILL BE AN ELECTION.
SENATORS IN THIS BODY THE LAST
TIME HAD VERY WISE WORDS. THEY
ECHOED THE WORDS OF OUR
FOUNDERS.
A PARTISAN IMPEACHMENT IS LIKE
STEALING AN ELECTION. THAT'S
EXACTLY WHAT WE HAVE. TALK ABOUT
THE FRAMERS WORST NIGHTMARE.
IT IS A PARTISAN IMPEACHMENT
THAT THEY DELIVERED TO YOUR
DOORSTEP IN AN ELECTION YEAR.
SOME OF YOU ARE UPSET BECAUSE
YOU SHOULD BE IN IOWA RIGHT NOW
BUT INSTEAD WE ARE HERE
AND THEY ARE NOT READY TO GO. IT
IS OUTRAGEOUS.
IS OUTRAGEOUS AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WON'T STAND FOR IT. I
WILL TELL YOU THAT RIGHT NOW.
THEY ARE NOT HERE TO SEE ONE
ELECTION. THEY ARE HERE TO SEE
TWO ELECTIONS. IT IS BURIED IN
THE SMALL PRINT OF THE ARTICLES
OF IMPEACHMENT. THEY WANT TO
REMOVE PRESIDENT TRUMP FROM THE
BALLOT.
THEY WON'T TELL YOU THAT. THEY
DON'T HAVE THE GUTS TO SAY THAT
DIRECTLY BUT THAT IS EXACTLY
WHAT THEY ARE HERE TO DO AND
THEY ARE ASKING THE SENATE TO
ATTACK ONE OF THE MOST SACRED
RIGHTS WE HAVE AS AMERICANS. THE
RIGHT TO CHOOSE OUR PRESIDENT IN
AN ELECTION YEAR. IT HAS NEVER
DONE DONE BEFORE. IT SHOULDN'T
BE DONE NOW. THE REASON IT HAS
EVER BEEN DONE IS BECAUSE NO ONE
EVER THOUGHT THAT IT WOULD BE A
GOOD IDEA FOR A COUNTRY AND FOR
OUR CHILDREN AND GRANDCHILDREN
TO TRY TO REMOVE A PRESIDENT
FROM A BALLOT. TO DENY THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE THE RIGHT TO
VOTE BASED ON A FRAUDULENT
INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED IN
SECRET WITH NO RIGHT.
I COULD GO ON AND ON BUT MY
POINT IS VERY SIMPLE. IT IS LONG
PAST TIME THAT WE START THIS SO
WE CAN END THE RIDICULOUS
CHARADE AND HAVE AN ELECTION.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR. CHIEF
JUSTICE.
>> DOES THE PRESIDENT'S COUNSEL
YIELD BACK THE REMAINDER OF
THEIR TIME? THANK YOU. THE
DEMOCRATIC LEADER IS RECOGNIZED.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, I SENT AN
AMENDMENT TO THE DESK
TO SUBPOENA CERTAIN DOCUMENTS
AND RECORDS FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
AND I ASK THAT IT BE READ.
>> THE CLERK WILL READ THE
DOCUMENT .
THE SENATOR FROM NEW YORK
PROPOSES AMENDMENT NUMBER 24 AND
AT THE APPROPRIATE PLACE IN
RESOLVING CLAUSE RESULT THE
FOLLOWING NOTWITHSTANDING ANY
OTHER PROVISION OF THIS
RESOLUTION PURSUANT TO RULES
FIVE AND SIX
AND OF THE RULES AND PROCEDURE
AND PRACTICE IN THE SENATE WHEN
SETTING ON IMPEACHMENT TRIALS
, THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE
UNITED STATES TO THE SECRETARY
OF THE SENATE SHALL ISSUE A
SUBPOENA TO THE ACTING CHIEF OF
STAFF OF THE WHITE HOUSE
COMMANDING HIM TO PRODUCE FOR
THE TIME PERIOD FROM JANUARY 1
OF 2019 TO THE PRESENT ALL
DOCUMENTS AND COMMUNICATIONS AND
OTHER RECORDS WITHIN THE
POSSESSION AND CUSTODY OR
CONTROL OF THE WHITE HOUSE
INCLUDING THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL REFERRING OR RELATING TO
ALL MEETINGS AND CALLS BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND THE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE INCLUDING
DOCUMENTS AND COMMUNICATIONS AND
OTHER RECORDS RELATED TO
PREPARATION FOR
IN FOLLOWING APRIL 21 AND JULY
25 OF 2019 TELEPHONE CALLS AS
WELL AS THE CENTER 25th, 2019
MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE IN NEW YORK. ALL
INVESTIGATIONS INCREASE OR OTHER
PROBES RELATED TO UKRAINE
INCLUDING ANY THAT RELATE IN ANY
WAY
TO ONE FORMER VICE PRESIDENT,
JOSEPH BIDEN AND TO HUNTER BIDEN
AND ANY OF HIS ASSOCIATES AND
THREE THE HOLDINGS AND AND ALSO
KNOWN AS BARISMA
IN THE 2016 UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS. FIVE, THE DEMOCRATIC
NATIONAL COMMITTEE OR SIX CROWN
STRIKE. THE ACTUAL OR POTENTIAL
SUSPENSION WITHHOLDING DELAYING
OR FREEZING OR RELEASING OF THE
UNITED STATES FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
MILITARY ASSISTANCE OR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE OF ANY KIND TO
UKRAINE INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO THE UKRAINE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE USA I AND
FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING FMF.
ALL DOCUMENTS COMMUNICATIONS AND
NOTES AND OTHER RECORDS CREATED
OR RECEIVED BY ACTING CHIEF OF
STAFF NICK MULVANEY AND THE
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR JOHN
BOLTON, SENIOR ADVISOR TO THE
CHIEF OF STAFF, ROBERT BLAIR AND
OTHER WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS
RELATING TO EFFORTS TO SOLICIT
REQUESTS DEMAND AND PERSUADE OR
COERCE UKRAINE TO CONDUCT OR
ANNOUNCE INVESTIGATIONS AND TO
WITHHOLD A WHITE HOUSE MEETING
FOR UKRAINE'S PRESIDENT OR THREE
TO WITHHOLD MILITARY AND OTHER
SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE.
E, MEETINGS AT OR INVOLVING THE
WHITE HOUSE THAT RELATED TO
UKRAINE INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ONE PRESIDENT
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY'S
INAUGURATION
IN 2019 IN UKRAINE INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
DECISION TO NOT ASK VICE
PRESIDENT PANTS TO LEAD THE
DELEGATION DIRECTING HIM NOT TO
ATTEND AND SUBSEQUENT DECISIONS
ABOUT THE COMPOSITION OF THE
DELEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES.
TWO, A MEETING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE OF 2019
INVOLVING AMONG OTHERS PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND THEN SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE FOR UKRAINE
NEGOTIATIONS AND AVASTIN ARE
KURT VOLKER AND ENERGY SECRETARY
RICK PERRY AND THE UNITED STATES
AMBASSADOR WITH THE EUROPEAN
UNION UNION AS WELL AS ANY
PRIVATE MEETINGS OR
CONVERSATIONS
WITH THOSE INDIVIDUALS BEFORE OR
AFTER THAT LARGER MEETING AND
THREE MEETINGS AT THE WHITE
HOUSE ON OR ABOUT JULY 10 2019
INVOLVING UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS.
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR JOHN BOLTON AND
SECRETARY PERRY AND INVESTOR
VOLKER AND SOMNOLENT TO INCLUDE
A MEETING IN THE OFFICE AND
SUBSEQUENT MEETING IN THE WARD
ROOM. A MEETING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE ON OR AROUND AUGUST 30 OF
2019 INVOLVING PRESIDENT TRUMP
AND THE SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE
POMPEO AND SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
MARK ASPER. FIVE, UPLAND MEETING
LATER CANCELED ON OR AROUND
SEPTEMBER 1 OF 2019 BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND PRESIDENT
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY AND ATTENDED
BY
VICE PRESIDENT PANTS. SIX, A
MEETING AT THE WHITE HOUSE ON OR
AROUND SEPTEMBER 11 OF 2019
INVOLVING PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
VICE PRESIDENT PANTS
AND MR. MULVANEY CONCERNING THE
LIFTING OF THE HOLD ON SECURITY
ASSISTANCE FOR UKRAINE. F,
MEETINGS AND FULL TELEPHONE
CALLS OR CONVERSATIONS RELATING
TO THE OCCASION IN WHICH THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
OFFICIALS REPORTED CONCERNS TO
LAWYERS INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL AND LEGAL ADVISOR, JOHN
EISENBERG
REGARDING MATTERS RELATED TO
UKRAINE INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO THE DECISION TO DELAY
MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE
AND THE JULY 10, 2019 MEETING AT
THE WHITE HOUSE WITH OFFICIALS
AND THREE THE JULY 25, 2019 CALL
WITH THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE
AND A SEPTEMBER 1, 2019 MEETING
BETWEEN AMBASSADOR SOMNOLENT AND
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS AND FIVE THE
2019 CALL WITH INVESTOR SOMEONE.
G, ANY INTERNAL REVIEW OR
ASSESSMENT WITHIN THE WHITE
HOUSE REGARDING UKRAINE MATTERS
REGARDING THE
2019 REQUEST FOR DOCUMENTS FROM
THE HOUSE PERMANENT SELECT
COMMITTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE AND THE HOUSE
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND
REFORM AND THE HOUSE COMMITTEE
ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO DOCUMENTS
COLLECTED THAT PERTAINED
TO THE HOLD OF MILITARY AND
OTHER SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE AND THE SCHEDULING OF A
WHITE HOUSE MEETING FOR THE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE AND ANY
REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATIONS BY
UKRAINE. H, THE COMPLETE
SUBMITTED BY WAS A BLUR WITHIN
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
ON OR AROUND AUGUST 12, 2019
THROUGH THE INSPECTOR GENERAL OF
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
I, ALL MEETINGS ARE CALLS
INCLUDING REQUEST FOR OR
RECORDINGS OF MEETINGS OR
TELEPHONE CALLS SCHEDULING ITEMS
AND CALENDAR ENTRIES AND WHITE
HOUSE VISITOR RECORDS AND EMAIL
OR TEXT MESSAGES USING PERSONAL
OR WORK-RELATED DEVICES BETWEEN
OR AMONG ONE CURRENT OR FORMER
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND RUDOLPH
GIULIANI. AND THE FORM UNITED
STATES AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
DECISION TO AND HER TOUR OR
RECALL HER FROM THE EMBASSY
AND THE SERGEANT AT ARMS IS
AUTHORIZED TO UTILIZE THE
SERVICES OF THE DEPUTY SERGEANT
AT ARMS OR ANY OTHER EMPLOYEE OF
THE UNITED STATES SENATE AND
SERVING THE SUBPOENA AUTHORIZED
TO BE ISSUED BY THE SECTION.
>> THE MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> I WOULD ASK FOR A BRIEF 15
RECESS FOR THE PARTIES TO
RECOGNIZE AND DEBATE THE
AMENDMENT. I ASKED CONSENT
FOR A RECESS SUBJECT TO THE CALL
OF THE CHAIR.
>> WITHOUT OBJECTIONS, SO
AWARDED.
>> THE SUN IS TAKING A BRIEF
RECESS HERE AND WE WILL REJOIN
AS IT IS A TAKE THEIR SEATS BACK
IN THE SENATE CHAMBER . YOU ARE
WATCHING LIVE COVERAGE FROM THE
WASHINGTON POST. THERE ARE
CERTAINLY SOME CHANGES ALREADY
THIS AFTERNOON AND WE EXPECT TO
SEE MITCH McCONNELL MAKE AN
ARGUMENT FOR HAVING THESE 12
HOUR DAYS. THESE MARATHON DAYS,
24 HOURS FOR INSIGHT TO MAKE
THEIR ARGUMENTS AND THAT HAS NOW
BEEN LENGTHENED TO THREE DAYS
GIVING EVERYONE SOME BREATHING
ROOM. THAT MEANS WE WON'T
NECESSARILY BE GOING UNTIL 1:00
IN THE MORNING EACH NIGHT AND IT
CHANGES A COUPLE OF THINGS THAT
ARE SIGNIFICANT. IT MEANS THAT
ALL THIS WILL BE ABLE TO GET
DONE BEFORE THAT HOUR WHEN
PEOPLE ARE TUNING OUT AND GOING
TO BED. AND ALSO MEANS IF WE
LOOK AT THE WAY LADIES ARE
SCHEDULED OUT THAT THEY WILL
HAVE TO MAKE THE DEFENSE
SPLIT TIME SO THEY WILL LIKELY
HAVE IT AT THE END OF THIS WEEK
AND THE BEGINNING OF NEXT WEEK
WITH THAT DAY BREAK IN BETWEEN.
NOT IDEAL BUT A MORE HUMANE TO
SCHEDULE AND IT SOUNDS LIKE WE
ARE HEARING FROM OUR REPORTERS
SOURCING THIS THAT THIS WAS IN
LARGE PART BECAUSE OF REPUBLICAN
CONCERN ON THE MODERATE SIDE OF
THAT REPUBLICAN AISLE. LET'S GO
TO MY GUESS, ROSALIND HELDERMAN
AND ERIN HOLDER. WE ARE HEARING
THAT IT IS SENATOR COLLINS AND
PERHAPS OTHERS THAT RAISED
CONCERN ABOUT HOW WE DO
McCONNELL WAS STRUCTURING THE
PARAMETERS OF THIS TRIAL.
WE ARE SEEING SOME ADJUSTMENTS.
>> IT IS INTERESTING THAT THE
RULES WERE PUT FORWARD ABOUT 18
HOURS AGO  AND THEN THIS HAPPENS
BASICALLY ON THE EVE OF THIS
DEBATE
AND YOU WOULD THINK THIS WOULD
BE SOMETHING THEY WOULD WANT TO
HIRE UP BEFOREHAND AND MAYBE THE
LIKES OF COLLINS OR OTHERS THAT
RAISE CONCERNS THAT HAVE NOT
DIGESTED THE RULES BUT MAYBE A
REFLECTION THAT McCONNELL WOULD
HAVE TO BE REACTIVE TO WHAT THEY
ARE TELLING THEM
AND TO THE EXTENT THAT THERE
COULD'VE BEEN A VOTE ON THIS AND
SOMEONE LIKE SUSAN COLLINS WOULD
NOT HAVE BEEN ON BOARD LIKE
THAT. THAT WOULD BE A
SIGNIFICANT THING FOR
REPUBLICANS EVEN IF THEY COULD
GET THE RULES PACKAGE PASSED IF
THEY HAD THEM VOTING AGAINST
THEM
AND THAT IS THAT THE RULES WERE
UNFAIR. I ALSO THINK IT IS
IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT THESE
RULE CHANGES THAT WE ARE SEEING
BRINGS US CLOSER IN LINE WITH
THE CLINTON RULES OF 1999. WE
TALKED ABOUT THE DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN THE TWO SETS OF RULES
AND THIS ADDRESSES TWO OF THEM
WITH STRETCHING OVER THREE DAYS
INSTEAD OF TWO AND THERE ARE
STILL TWO CLINTON RULES THAT ARE
DIFFERENT FROM TODAY. ONE IS
THAT THE NEW RULES DO NOT
REQUIRE A VOTE OF DISMISSAL
AND THAT IS SOMETHING THAT A
MEMBER CAN MOVE FOR AND HAVE A
VOTE ON BUT THAT IS NOT REQUIRED
AS IT WAS IN THE CLINTON EXAMPLE
AND THE OTHER ONE IS THAT THEY
WILL STILL HAVE THE VOTE BEFORE
THE VOTE ON NEW WITNESSES AND
NEW EVIDENCE SO IT WILL NOT JUST
BE STRAIGHT MOVING INTO THE
VOTING ON JOHN BOLTON BUT DO WE
WANT TO HAVE THESE NOTES ON NEW
EVIDENCE AND NEW WITNESSES AND
THAT IF THEY APPROVE THAT, THEY
COULD HAVE VOTES ON INDIVIDUAL
WITNESSES.
>> IT IS IMPORTANT TO RESTATE
THAT WE DO McCONNELL STILL HAS
HIS CAUCUS WITH HIM ON THE
QUESTION OF WAITING TO TALK
ABOUT WITNESSES UNTIL LATER IN
THE PROCESS SO IT'S NOT LIKE
THEY HAVE HAD SECTIONS ON THE
ISSUE.
MICHALSKI WAS JUST INTERVIEWED
AND THEY ONCE AGAIN REITERATED
THE STING OF I'M OKAY WITH THE
STARTING AND WE WILL SEE ABOUT
THIS LATER ON. THIS QUESTION OF
EVIDENCE IS VERY IMPORTANT. WE
ARE ALL TRYING TO TRACK WHAT
THESE CHANGES ARE
SO WHY IS THIS SO SIGNIFICANT?
>> IT MEANS THAT THE EVIDENCE
WILL BE FACTORED IN BEFORE WE
SEE THE OPENING ARGUMENTS AND
BEFORE SENATORS WILL START
ASKING QUESTIONS.  THIS IS
SUBJECT TO AN OBJECTION BY
CERTAIN SENATORS AND IT COULD BE
VOTED ON WHERE THEY COULD
PREVENT THE EVIDENCE FROM BEING
ADDED INTO THE RECORD
IMMEDIATELY BUT AS IT WAS BEFORE
, IT REQUIRED A VOTE TO GET TO
THAT POINT SO NOW THEY WILL HAVE
TO TAKE IT OUT BEFORE THEY PUT
IT IN.
I THINK IT WAS ALWAYS LIKELY
THAT THE EVIDENCE WOULD BE ADDED
AT A LATER DATE BUT THE CHANGE
NOW IS THAT IT WILL EFFECTIVELY
BE PUT ON THE RECORD
BEFORE WE SEE THE OPENING
ARGUMENTS AND BEFORE WE SEE THE
SENATORS SUBMIT THEIR QUESTIONS.
>> BEFORE WE LET YOU GO, I WANT
TO TALK ABOUT WHAT WE JUST
WITNESSED.  WE SAW BOTH SIDES
LAY SOME GROUNDWORK. IT IS
FASCINATING THAT J AND PAT
CIPOLLONE  THAT WERE ARGUING
BOTH HAD INACCURACIES AND THAT
PRECIPITATION IS HERE TO AN
AUDIENCE OF PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
HIS SUPPORTERS BUT THEY HAD
INACCURACIES IN THE CASE THEY
RELATING OUT.
>> THE BIG ONE WHICH I WILL
MENTION HERE, ONE WAS THAT HE
REFERENCED THE IDEA THAT ADAM
SCHIFF WAS ALWAYS EARLY
IMPEACHMENT INCREASE BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS AND THEY WERE
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS
BUT THAT WAS BEFORE THEY VOTED
TO OPEN UP THE IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY TO HAVE PUBLIC HEARINGS.
THEY SAID REPUBLICANS WERE NOT
ALLOWED IN THE SKIFF
AND THAT IS FUNDAMENTALLY NOT
TRUE. REPUBLICANS ON THE VELVET
COMMITTEES WERE ALLOWED TO BE IN
THOSE. THERE WAS A MOMENT AT
WHICH CONGRESSMAN GATES FROM
FLORIDA AND OTHERS TRIED TO WORK
THEIR WAY
INTO THE SKIFF EVEN THOUGH THEY
WERE ON THE NECESSARY
COMMITTEES, SOME OF THEM AND IT
WAS A BIG SCENE BUT THEY WERE
DOZENS OF REPUBLICANS THAT WERE
AUTHORIZED TO BE IN THOSE
DEPOSITIONS SO HIM SAYING IT SO
FLATLY WAS INCORRECT. THE OTHER
ONE AND MAYBE THIS IS
TECHNICALLY MAYBE NOT A TOTAL
INACCURACY BUT HE SAID THAT WHEN
ADAM SCHIFF WAS SUMMARIZING THE
PRESIDENT'S CALL THAT HE DIDN'T
DISCLOSE THAT IT WAS  COMPLETELY
FAKE. ADAM SCHIFF AT THE
BEGINNING OF HIS SUMMARY  AND
HIS IMPLICIT SUMMARY OF THE
PHONE CALL BETWEEN PRESIDENT
TRUMP DID IN FACT SAY HE WAS
OFFERING A SUMMARY THAT WAS
CLOSER TO AN ORGANIZED CRIME
NOVEL. HE SAID HIS SUMMARY WAS
WITH THE RAMBLING AND THE
TRANSCRIPT AND HE WAS SAYING
THINGS NOT IN SO MANY WORDS. HE
DID INDICATE THAT HE WAS
OVERSIMPLIFYING THESE THINGS AND
PERHAPS COULD'VE BEEN A LITTLE
BIT CLEARER BUT TO ARGUE THAT HE
HAD PRESENTED THIS AS A DIRECT
TRANSCRIPT IS JUST NOT ACCURATE.
>> I REMEMBER WHEN YOU COULD
TELL HE WAS DOING IT AND
DEMOCRATS WERE LIKE NO BECAUSE
HE WAS TRYING TO USE THIS
HYPERBOLE TO SAY IT READS LIKE A
CLASSIC ORGANIZED CRIME
SHAKEDOWN AND THEN
HE DID THIS THING WHERE IT WAS
GIMMICKY AND I THINK HE INTENDED
IT TO RESONATE BUT INSTEAD IT
BACKFIRED BECAUSE THE PUBLICANS
WERE ABLE TO SAY YOU ARE
INACCURATE AND HOW YOU ARE
TALKING ABOUT THE CONTENT OF
THIS CALL AND IT IS NOW BEING
BROUGHT UP.
>> I THINK HE REGRETS THAT AND
HAS SAID THAT BUT IT IS NOT
DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE TOPIC AT
HAND.
>> HE CLEARLY SET IT UP AS
USING AN EXAMPLE. HE WASN'T
MAKING UP THE CONTENT.
>> THE INACCURACIES THAT WAS IN
THAT INITIAL PRESENTATION, I
THINK WE HAVE BECOME
VERY ACCUSTOMED TO THAT THING IN
PUBLIC RHETORIC AND ESPECIALLY
IF WE ASSUME IT DOESN'T MATTER.
I DO WONDER IF THE PELICAN
SENATOR AND IF
SCHIFF IS ABLE TO HIGHLIGHT
THOSE AND POINT THEM OUT IN AN
EFFECTIVE WAY IF THERE PELICAN
SENATORS  WILL BE PLEASED. ONE
THING THAT OCCURRED TO ME ONLY
AFTER WE STARTED TO SEE THOSE
INITIAL REMARKS IS JUST HOW
UNUSUAL OF A SETTING THIS IS.
THE RULES OF THE SENATE REQUIRE
THAT THE MEMBERS OF THE SENATE
SIT THERE AND LISTEN TO THIS.
THEY ARE NOT ALLOWED TO TALK TO
EACH OTHER OR LOOK AT THEIR
PHONES AND IT IS A VERY UNUSUAL
THING IN MODERN LIFE FOR ANYONE
BUT ESPECIALLY FOR THE MEMBERS
OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE TO
BE REQUIRED TO SIT AND DO
NOTHING BUT LISTEN TO THE
PRESENTATION BEING MADE ON THE
FLOOR OF THE SENATE AND FOR THAT
REASON, I THINK THERE IS A
PRESENTATION BOTH FROM BOTH
SIDES WHERE THEY ARE NOT
AFFECTING THE OUTCOME BUT THEY
ARE GOING TO BE MORE IMPORTANT
THAN THEY MIGHT OTHERWISE SEE
AND THERE MIGHT BE SOME PUSHBACK
FOR PELICAN SENATORS IF THERE IS
A CONSISTENT PATTERN OF
INACCURACIES AND ALSO THE
INITIAL PRESENTATION
THAT THE DEMOCRATIC WAS BETTER
ORGANIZED AND THEY HAD
THE ARGUMENT THAT WENT FROM E TO
B TO C AND OUT THE FALCONS WILL
LOVE THAT PATTERN IF IT
CONTINUES.
>> IT IS IMPORTANT TO POINT OUT
THAT PART OF WHAT  ADAM SCHIFF
WAS DOING WAS MAKING A CASE FOR
SHOWING HOW HISTORICALLY THESE
THINGS HAVE BEEN DONE IN THE
PAST  AND THEY WERE FOCUSED
AND THAT IS WHY THAT SHOULD BE
FOLLOWED AGAIN.
>>
I THINK WHAT WE SAW WAS WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTS AND
NOT REALLY DIVING INTO THE
EVIDENCE OF MUCH AND THAT WAS
VERY CAREFULLY PLANNED OUT.
>>> A WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL WHO IS
TECHNICALLY A LAWYER FOR THE
WHITE HOUSE AND NOT THE
PRESIDENT PERSONALLY. HE IS
ACTING AS THE PRESIDENT'S LAWYER
HERE. SO YOU WOULD EXPECT HIM TO
BE DEFENDING THE PRESIDENT. BUT
I THINK MAYBE, IF THAT'S THE
TONE WE WILL GET FROM THE LIKES
OF CIPOLLONE, THAT SETS THE
TONE FOR THE TRIAL.
>> LET'S GO TO OUR COLLEAGUE ON
CAPITOL HILL WHO HAS BEEN
FOLLOWING ALL OF THIS. RHONDA,
WHAT HAS STOOD OUT TO YOU IN
THIS PROCESS SO FAR?
>> THE CHANGES MITCH MCCONNELL
CAME. THEY CAME RIGHT AFTER THE
SENATE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS MET FOR
LUNCH. I JUST HEARD FROM A
SENIOR REPUBLICAN AIDE WHO SAID
THIS WAS TALKED ABOUT. THIS
REVOLUTION WAS TALKED ABOUT IN
THAT LUNCH AND THEN MITCH
MCCONNELL CAME WITH THOSE TWO
CHANGES. JUST TO REVIEW. THOSE
TWO CHANGES INCLUDED THE HOUSE
RECORD WILL NOW BE ENTERED IN AS
EVIDENCE AUTOMATICALLY. THAT WAS
NOT THE CASE THIS MORNING. AND
THEN, SECONDLY, THE WITNESSES
WILL BE ABLE TO
BE
VOTED ON AS WELL. REPUBLICANS IF
YOU LOOK AT THE TIMING THAT
MITCH MCCONNELL MADE THIS
DECISION, IT COULD SUGGEST THAT
REPUBLICANS REALLY DID HAVE A
PRIVATE CLOSED DOOR WHERE THEY
EXPRESSED THEIR CONCERNS THAT
THIS WAS NOT GOING TO BE A GOOD
PROCESS. AND, THEIR CONCERNS
ABOUT CONDENSING THIS TO JUST
TWO DAYS INSTEAD OF THREE OR
FOUR LIKE IT WAS IN THE CLINTON
CASE. SO, THAT REALLY STANDS OUT
TO ME THAT MITCH MCCONNELL DID
IN FACT CHANGE HIS MIND. WE ARE
UNSURE IF HE HAD THOSE THOUGHTS
BEFORE. BUT, EARLIER, WE WERE
REPORTING THAT HIS ORIGINAL
RESOLUTION WAS TO NOT INCLUDE
THAT POINT ABOUT BRINGING IN THE
HOUSE RECORD AUTOMATICALLY. IT
ALSO DID NOT INCLUDE THAT THERE
WOULD BE MORE THAN TWO DAY TO
FINISH UP THESE OPENING
ARGUMENTS.
>> GREAT POINTS RHONDA, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH. THIS IS A MOVING
TARGET AND WE ARE WATCHING TO
SEE HOW THIS ALL UNFOLDS AND HOW
THESE SENATORS THAT ARE ON THE
MODERATE SIDE OF THINGS REALLY
HAVE SO MUCH POWER AND SWAY. AND
WE ARE ALREADY SEEING SOME OF
THAT MUSCLE FLEX IN HOW LEADER
MITCH MCCONNELL IS RUNNING
THINGS. OKAY, MICHAEL. WE KNOW
THE SENATORS ARE LOCKED DOWN
HERE IN DC AND THERE HAS BEEN A
REAL QUESTION ABOUT WOULD THEY
BE ABLE TO GET TO IOWA. WOULD
THEY BE ABLE TO DO A TELE TOWN
HALL IF THIS IMPEACHMENT PROCESS
WENT INTO 1:00 IN THE MORNING?
SO, AT 9:00 A.M., VERSUS THE 1
SAM, MIGHT BE A BIG DIFFERENCE
FOR SOME OF THEM.
>> IT COULD HELP. I KNOW THERE
IS STILL PLANNING GOING ON. ALL
THESE SENATORS ARE DEALING WITH
FLUCTUATING SCHEDULES. THEY HAVE
BEEN HELD UP BY MITCH MCCONNELL
NOT TELLING THEM WHAT THE
SCHEDULE WOULD BE.
>> IT'S NOT JUST US.
>> IT'S NOT JUST US. THEY HAVE
POSSIBLE MULTIPLE SCHEDULES.
SOME HAVE BOOKED EVENTS SHOULD
THE TRIAL WRAP NEXT WEEK. AND
THEY WILL NOT CANCEL THEM UNTIL
THEY KNOW IT WILL NOT HAPPEN. I
EXPECT YOU WILL HAVE PUBLIC
ANNOUNCEMENTS IN THE COMING
DAYS
ABOUT ONLINE CHATS. AND, TOWN
HALLS. BOTTOM LINE, IT WILL NOT
BE THE SAME. THE FACT IS NOW,
YOU HAVE PETE BUTTIGIEG, AND,
FORMER VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN
TRAVELING THE STATE, HOLDING
EVENTS AND THE OTHER THREE OR
FOUR DEPENDING ON HOW YOU COUNT
IT WHO ARE COMPETING IN IOWA ARE
NOT ABLE TO COMPETE AT THE SAME
LEVEL. THAT SAID, YOU KNOW,
THERE'S MULTIPLE NEWS CYCLES
GOING ON AT THE SAME TIME. THE
BIG CAMPAIGN NEWS TODAY REALLY
HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
IMPEACHMENT. THE FIGHT BETWEEN
HILLARY CLINTON AND BERNIE
SANDERS. I KNOW A LOT OF VOTERS
IN IOWA WILL HEAR THAT NEWS
TOTALLY SEPARATELY AND
INDEPENDENTLY OF IMPEACHMENT.
>> YOU HAVE A STORY OUT ABOUT
MIKE BLOOMBERG RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT. AND WHAT HE IS DOING
WITH ALL THIS MONEY HE IS
POURING INTO
THE CAMPAIGN. AND, IT LOOKS LIKE
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS RIGHT IN HIS
LINE OF SIGHT.
>> HE IS TRYING TO RUN A DOUBLE
BARREL CAMPAIGN. ONE TO GET
HIMSELF ELECTED THE NOMINEE.
THAT'S VERY MUCH A LONG SHOT BID
THAT WILL DETERMINE HOW WELL
OTHER CANDIDATES DO IN THE FIRST
FOUR STATES BUT AT THE SAME
TIME, EVERYTHING HE IS DOING TO
THAT END IS BEING DOUBLE
PURPOSED TO HELP DEMOCRATS OR
SOFTEN TRUMP UP IN THE SWING
STATES. THEY ARE PIVOTING THEIR
AD CAMPAIGN. THEY ARE VASTLY
OUTSPENDING ANYBODY IN AMERICA
RIGHT NOW. IN POLITICS ON
TELEVISION. I'M SURE YOUR
VIEWERS ARE ALL WATCHING THEIR
ADS WHETHER THEY WANT TO OR NOT.
THEY WILL PIVOT THAT IN 27
STATES ABOUT WHY TRUMP NEEDS TO
BE IMPEACHED. IT IS A DIRECT TO
CAMERA SPOT. IF THE SENATORS
DON'T DO THEIR JOB, WE WILL DO
IT IN NOVEMBER. THAT'S IMPORTANT
BECAUSE NUMBER OF THESE STATES
WHERE THESE ADS WILL BE RUNNING
ARE STATES WHERE
THERE ARE REPUBLICAN IMCOUPLE
ENCOUPLE BENTS. TO MAKE SENATOR
SUSAN COLLINS FEEL A LITTLE MORE
CONCERNED. SHE KNOWS HER VIEWERS
ARE WATCHING WHATEVER THE
NEWSCAST SHOWS ABOUT THE
IMPEACHMENT WILL WATCH MIKE
BLOOMBERG SAYING THEY ARE
CALLING HER A COWARD ON TV.
DURING THE STATION BREAK. AND I
EXPECT YOU WILL SEE MORE OF
THIS. HE IS RUNNING AT A CLIP OF
$30 MILLION A WEEK WHICH IS A
HUGE AMOUNT OF MONEY. EVEN AT
THE END OF THE GENERAL ELECTION.
>> WE ARE WATCHING THE SENATE AS
MEMBERS GO BACK AND FORTH.
REPORTERS ARE REALLY PENNED IN.
THE HALLS ARE NEVER THIS CLEAR.
IF YOU HAVE BEEN A REPORTER ON
CAPITOL HILL, USUALLY, WE ARE
LOITERING AROUND WAITING TO TALK
TO SENATORS AS THEY COME OUT.
THAT'S AN IMPORTANT PART OF THE
PROCESS. YOU CAN PULL A SENATOR
ASIDE AND DO A WALK AND TALK
WITH THEM. IF THEY KNOW YOU,
THEY WILL GIVE YOU A SENSE OF
WHAT THEY ARE THINKING. OFF THE
RECORD, ON THE RECORD. THAT'S AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THIS REPORTING
PROCESS. AND, THE JOURNALISTS
ARE REALLY STUCK IN PLACE RIGHT
NOW. SO, A LOT OF WORK WILL BE
DONE ON THE PHONES TO TRY TO
PING PEOPLE. GET MESSAGES. BUT,
THE SENATORS IN THE CHAMBER
CAN'T HAVE THEIR DEVICES. SO,
YOU KNOW, THIS REPORTING PROCESS
IS TAKING ON A VERY DIFFERENT
SORT OF FEEL FOR SO MANY OF OUR
COLLEAGUES ON CAPITOL HILL. I
WANT TO GET A SENSE FROM YOU
ABOUT THE ATTORNEYS FOR
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND WHO IS
REPRESENTING HIM. SO MANY OF
THESE ARE NAMES AND FACES
FROM FOX NEWS. FROM CONSERVATIVE
RADIO. LIKE KEN STARR WHO HAS
DONE THE TV THING AND WAS THE
ONE WHO WENT AFTER PRESIDENT
TRUMP DURING HIS IMPEACHMENT
PROCESS. WHO ARE YOU WATCHING ON
THE PRESIDENT'S TEAM AND WHO
SHOULD WE BE LOOKING FOR?
>> YOU KNOW, I'M LESS INTERESTED
AT THIS POINT IN WHICH ONE TO
WATCH AND MORE IN WHO HANDLES
THINGS WHEN WE GET TO THE STATES
WHERE THEY ASK QUESTIONS. THAT'S
THE
PART THAT I THINK IS MOST UP IN
THE AIR. I'M NOT SURE WHICH, IF
ANY OF THESE LAWYERS ARE REALLY
WELL
VERSED IN THE ACTUAL
FACTS. THE TIME LINE. IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE HOW THEY
HANDLE THAT. WE ARE AWAYS AWAY
FROM THAT STAGE OF THE TRIAL. IT
WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE.
>> WE TALKED ABOUT THE
INACCURACIES SAID BY PAT
CIPOLLONE. THE WHITE HOUSE
ELECTED NOT TO PARTICIPATE. HE
ALSO SAID THAT THE INVESTIGATION
BY SPECIAL COUNSEL ROBERT
MUELLER FOUND NO OBSTRUCTION.
WHEN ACTUALLY, WHAT MUELLER
DECIDED TO DO AS YOU WELL KNOW,
WAS NOT WEIGH IN ON WHETHER THE
PRESIDENT ABOUT INSTRUCTED
JUSTICE. I'M FASCINATED BY THIS.
IT GIVES A SENSE OF JUST WHAT
ARGUMENTS MAY COME OUT LATER IN
THE TRIAL. IF THEY ARE SAYING
THINGS INCORRECT NOW, IT IS
REALLY ABOUT PROCESS. IT DOES
CALL INTO QUESTION HOW STRONG
AND ROBUST THEIR DEFENSE WILL
BE.
>> WELL, AND, AGAIN, THEY ARE
TALKING ABOUT
A LOT OF THINGS. THE BASE OF THE
ISSUE IS DEBATING THE RULES. THE
PROCEDURE. AND, SCHIFF KIND OF
GOT INTO, WENT SOMEWHAT BEYOND
THE PROCEDURE IN HIS REMARKS
TALKING KIND OF ABOUT THE ACTUAL
CHARGES AGAINST THE PRESIDENT.
BUT, A LOT OF WHAT HE WAS
TALKING ABOUT DID RELATE TO THE
PROCEDURE THAT MITCH MCCONNELL
PUT FORWARD SHOWING SLIDES OF
HOW THIS HAS BEEN DONE IN
HISTORY. HOW MANY WITNESSES WERE
HEARD. IMPEACHMENTS OF THE PAST.
WHEN YOU GOT TO THE PRESIDENT'S
TEAM, THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT
THE MUELLER REPORT. THEY WERE
TALKING ABOUT I BELIEVE THEY
MIGHT HAVE MENTIONED THE TEXT
MESSAGES BETWEEN THE FBI AGENT.
ALL THESE SORTS OF THINGS THAT
MIGHT BE APPEALING TO TRUMP.
MIGHT BE APPEALING TO HIS
SUPPORTERS BUT DIDN'T HAVE MUCH
TO DO WITH THE IMPEACHMENT CASE.
OR ABOUT THE PROCEDURES.
>> OKAY, SO, I WOULD LOVE TO
HEAR FROM YOU WHAT THE
CANDIDATES WHO ARE SORT OF STUCK
HERE IN WASHINGTON. AND WANT TO
BE IN IOWA AND NEW HAMPSHIRE.
HOW THEY ARE VIEWING THIS
IMPEACHMENT IN TERMS OF HOW DO
THEY TALK ABOUT IMPEACHMENT WHEN
IT WRAPS UP LIKE IN THE EVENING?
HOW ARE THEY, THEY HAVE ALL BEEN
JUSTIFYING THEIR RESPONSIBILITY.
HOW THEY NEED TO BE HERE IN
WASHINGTON. BUT, HOW ARE THEY
GOING TO TALK ABOUT IT WITH
VOTERS IN MATERIALLY MORNING
HOURS BEFORE THINGS KICK INTO
GEAR IN WASHINGTON?
>> IT IS TRICKY FOR THEM.
IMPEACHMENT IS NOT SOMETHING
THAT COMES UP A LOT ON THE
CAMPAIGN TRAIL. IT IS NOT A BIG
DECIDING ISSUE IN THE DEMOCRATIC
PRIMARY. DOESN'T DIFFERENTIATE
ANY OF THE CANDIDATES FROM THE
OTHER CANDIDATES. THEY ARE ALL
IN FAVOR OF IMPEACHING THE
PRESIDENT. THEY ARE ALL STRONG
IN THE WORDS THEY SAY. I THINK
WHAT EACH CANDIDATE IS TRYING TO
DO IS TAKE IMPEACHMENT AND THEN
THREAD IT THROUGH THE THEMES
THEY HAVE THAT ARE CENTRAL
THROUGH THE CAMPAIGN. SOMEONE
LIKE ELIZABETH WARREN WHO HAZE
ANCHORED HER ENTIRE CAMPAIGN IN
THE IDEA OF FIGHTING CORRUPTION
IN WASHINGTON. HERE YOU HAVE A
VERY CLEAR EXAMPLE OF ALLEGED
CORRUPTION. THEIR CAMPAIGN IS
ACTUALLY NOT UNHAPPY WITH THE
IDEA THAT THE FINAL WEEK BEFORE
THE IOWA CAUCUS, THE ENTIRE
COUNTY WILL BE THINKING ABOUT
CORRUPTION. AND THAT WILL COME
UP QUITE A BIT. SOMEONE LIKE AMY
KLOBUCHAR HAS BEEN RUNNING ON
HER EXPERIENCE IN WASHINGTON. ON
HER KNOWLEDGE OF THE SENATE.
AND, THE SAME WAY, I THINK SHE
WILL EMPHASIZE HER UNDERSTANDING
OF THE NUANCES OF THE CASE. SHE
IS GOING TO TRY TO PLAY INTO
THAT IDEA OF CONFIDENCE WHICH IS
REALLY CENTRAL TO HER CAMPAIGN.
BERNIE SANDERS IS SPENDING A LOT
OF TIME DEALING WITH THE FACT
HILLARY CLINTON JUST SAID SOME
UNKIND THINGS ABOUT HIM. TRYING
TO SHOW HIMSELF TO BE ABOVE ALL
THAT. SO I THINK HE WILL TAKE
WHATEVER APPROACH HE CAN
TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN. BUT YEAH.
ALL THAT SAID, THIS ISN'T A
WIN WIN FOR THESE CANDIDATES.
THEY HAVE ALL KIND OF ARGUES
THAT OH, MAYBE IF THE COUNTRY IS
FOCUSED ON US, WE WILL GET AIR
TIME. THEY ARE NOT GETTING MUCH
AIR TIME. AND IT IS SOMETHING
THEY HAVE TO DEAL WITH. THEY ARE
ALL ARGUING RIGHT NOW FOR LONGER
TRIALS WHICH IS WORSE
FOR THEIR PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
YOU
KNOW. PAT CIPOLLONE HAD A
COMMENT TO THAT EFFECT. THIS IS
A MORE GRAVE CONSTITUTIONAL
RESPONSIBILITY THEY HOLD AND
THEY ARE WILLING TO CARRY THAT
OUT.
>> ONE THING ADAM SCHIFF DID WAS
PLAY PRESIDENT TRUMP'S OWN WORDS
DURING HIS REMARKS THAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED TO SEE
WITNESSES CALLED. WHAT SORT OF
HOT WATER DOES IT GET THE WHITE
HOUSE INTO IF WITNESSES ARE
CALLED AND THE FREE-WHEELING
BRING IT ALL OUT WAY THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS TALKING
ABOUT IT BUT NOW DOES NOT
ACTUALLY WANT TO SEE?
>> WELL, I MEAN, THERE ARE A
NUMBER OF REALLY KEY PLAYERS WHO
HAVEN'T BEEN HEARD FROM AT ALL.
YOU TAKE THE ONE PEOPLE TALK
ABOUT MOST OFTEN. JOHN BOLTON.
WE KNOW FOR A FACT HE HAD TWO
MEETINGS IN THE OVAL OFFICE WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP IN THE MONTH
OF AUGUST IN 2019. WE TALK A LOT
ABOUT PROCEDURE IN POLITICS.
SOMETIMES THE FACTS OF THE CASE
GET A LITTLE FUZZY
FOR PEOPLE. JUST AS A REMINDER,
THE PRESIDENT WAS PUSHING FOR
THE BIDEN INVESTIGATION.
PRESIDENT TRUMP ASKED PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY IF ME WOULD OPEN THESE
INVESTIGATIONS. AND RIGHT AROUND
THAT SAME TIME, THE UNITED
STATES WAS WITHHOLDING THIS
REALLY NEEDED HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN MILITARY
AID. AND THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
TRIED TO SAY THAT THERE WAS NO
QUID PRO QUO INVOLVED. THE
MILITARY AID WAS NOT BEING
WITHHELD AS TO PRESSURE POINT.
AS LEVERAGE TO GET THE
UKRAINIANS TO AGREE TO WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED ABOUT BIDEN.
BUT THERE WERE A COUPLE OF KEY
MOMENTS WHEN PEOPLE TALKED ABOUT
THIS ISSUE WITH TRUMP AND WE
DON'T KNOW WHAT WAS SAID. ONE OF
THOSE WAS A ONE ON ONE MEETING
WITH JOHN BOLTON IN WHICH HE
CONVINCED THEM TO RELEASE THE
MILITARY AID. HE WAS GOING TO
TRY TO PERSUADE THE PRESIDENT
AND HE CAME OUT AND TOLD OTHER
PEOPLE IT'S NOT HAPPENING. THE
AID IS BEING WITHHELD, SO, WHY
DID THE PRESIDENT TELL HIM HE
WAS WITHHOLDING THE AID? WE DO
NOT KNOW. AND IF JOHN BOLTON
WERE TO BE CALLED I ASSUME, IF
HE WERE TO BE CALLED AND TO
ANSWER ALL THE QUESTIONS, WE
WOULD FIND OUT. NO ONE KNOWS IF
THE ANSWERS TO THAT QUESTION IS
USEFUL
TO THE PRESIDENT OR NOT. IT
PROBABLY IS NOT GIVEN HOW HARD
THE WHITE HOUSE HAS FOUGHT.
>> IF YOU WERE IN THE SENATE,
WHO WOULD YOU WANT TO HEAR FROM?
>> JOHN BOLTON, THEN MAYBE MICK
MULVANEY, THE CHIEF OF STAFF
PERSONALLY INVOLVED WITH
WITHHOLDING THE AID AND KNOWS A
GREAT DEAL ABOUT WHAT WAS
HAPPENING FOLLOWED BY SECRETARY
OF STATE MIKE POMPEO. FOLLOWED
PERHAPS BY THERE ARE SOME
OFFICIALS IN THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT OF BUDGET WHO HAVE
NOT TESTIFIED. AND WHO ALSO KNOW
A GREAT DEAL ABOUT THE AID AND
SOMEWHERE AFTER THAT WOULD
BE PARNAS, THE GIULIANI
ASSOCIATE.
>> HOW HARD ARE THE DEMOCRATIC
CANDIDATES RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT PUSHING
FOR MORE WITNESSES, MORE
TESTIMONY?
>> NONE OF THE CANDIDATES IN THE
SENATE ARE LEADING THE CHARGE.
THE SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS IS
UNITED AND CHUCK SCHUMER IS THE
FACE OF THAT. THIS IS NOT A
BERNIE SANDERS ISSUE OR
ELIZABETH WARREN ISSUE.
IMPEACHMENT IS NOT THE THING
THAT WILL GET ANYONE THE
NOMINATION OVER ANYONE ELSE IN
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY. BUT THEY
ARE ALL SHOWING BOTH THAT THEY
ARE LOYAL TO THE PARTY AND TO
THE PARTY EFFORTS. AND, THEY ARE
SHOWING THEIR OPPOSITION TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND HIS ACTIONS
WHICH WILL SERVE A PREREQUISITE
FOR SOMEONE WHO WANT TO BE
CONSIDERED A DEMOCRAT AT THIS
POINT.
>> WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
WITNESSES. LET'S HEAR WHAT
CHAIRMAN SCHIFF SAID HIMSELF.
LET'S HOLD BACK, BECAUSE CHIEF
JUSTICE ROBERTS HAS TAKEN HIS
SEAT AGAIN. SO LET'S GO LIVE TO
THE
SENATE FLOOR.
>> VERY WELL. MR. SCIPOLLONE?
MR. SCHIFF YOU HAVE AN HOUR.
>> THANK YOU
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE. LY CALL
HOUSEMANNAGEMENT LAUGHLIN TO
RESPOND. I DO WANT TO TAKE THIS
OPPORTUNITY BEFORE CERTAIN
REPRESENTATIONS BECAME CONGEALED
TO RESPOND TO MY COLLEAGUE'S
ARGUMENT ABOUT THE RESOLUTION AT
LARGE. FIRST, IT IS WORTH NOTING
THEY SAID NOTHING ABOUT THE
RESOLUTION. THEY SAID NOTHING
ABOUT THE RESOLUTION. THEY MADE
NO EFFORT TO DEFEND IT. OR TO
CLAIM THAT WAS LIKE THE SENATE
TRIAL IN THE CLINTON PROCEEDING.
THEY MADE NO ARGUMENT THAT,
WELL, THIS IS DIFFERENT HERE
BECAUSE OF THIS OR THAT. THEY
MADE NO ARGUMENT ABOUT THAT
WHATSOEVER. THEY MADE NO
ARGUMENT THAT IT MAKES SENSE TO
TRY THE CASE AND THEN CONSIDER
DOCUMENTS. THEY MADE NO ARGUMENT
ABOUT WHY IT MAKES SENSE TO HAVE
A TRIAL WITHOUT WITNESSES
BECAUSE IT IS INDEFENSIBLE. IT
IS INDEFENSIBLE. NO TRIAL IN
AMERICA HAS EVER BEEN CONDUCTED
LIKE THIS. SO
YOU
HEARD NOTHING ABOUT IT. THEY
COULDN'T DEFEND IT ON THE BASIS
OF SENATE HISTORY OR THE
CONSTITUTION. THEY COULDN'T
DEFEND IT AT ALL. SO WHAT DID
THEY SAY? FIRST, THEY MADE THE
REPRESENTATION THAT THE HOUSE IS
CLAIMING THERE WAS NO SUCH
THING AS EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE.
THAT'S NONSENSE. NO ONE HERE HAS
SUGGESTED THERE IS NO SUCH THING
AS EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE. BUT THE
INTERESTING THING HERE IS THEY
NEVER CLAIMED EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE. NOT ONCE DURING THE
HOUSE INVESTIGATION DID THEY SAY
A SINGLE DOCUMENT WAS
PRIVILEGED. WHY DIDN'T THEY? WHY
ONLY NOW? WHY NOT IN THE HOUSE?
IN ORDER TO CLAIM  PRIVILEGE AS
THEY KNOW BECAUSE THEY ARE GOOD
LAWYERS, YOU HAVE TO SPECIFY
WHICH DOCUMENT, WHICH LINE,
WHICH CONVERSATION. THEY DIDN'T
WANT TO DO THAT BECAUSE TO DO
THAT, THE PRESIDENT WOULD HAVE
TO
REVEAL
THE EVIDENCE OF HIS GUILT.
THAT'S WHY THEY MADE NO
INVOCATION OF PRIVILEGE. THAT
THE HOUSE SHOULD BE ABLE TO
IMPEACH AFTER EXHAUSTING ALL
REMEDIES. AFTER SAYING THE HOUSE
WILL HAVE THE SOLE IMPEACHMENT.
BUT ONLY AFTER IT GOES TO COURT.
THE DISTRICT COURT. THE COURT OF
APPEALS THE SUPREME COURT. THEY
GO BACK UP THE CHAIN AND SIX
YEARS. WHY DIDN'T THE FOUNDERS
REQUIRE THE CAUTION OF LEGAL
REMEDIES? BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T
WANT TO PUT THE
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS IN THE
COURTS.
I KID YOU NOT. OTHER LAWYERS.
MAKE NOT
THE ONES AT THIS STABLE, BUT
THEY ARE TELLING YOU THE EXACT
OPPOSITE. THAT YOU CANNOT
ENFORCE CONGRESSIONAL SUBPOENAS.
THEY BROUGHT UP DEPUTY
TO JOHN BOLTON SAYING HE WENT TO
COURT TO FIGHT US. THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT SAID HE CAN'T DO
THAT. THESE LAWYERS SAY HE
SHOULD, THOSE LAWYERS SAY HE
SHOULDN'T. THEY CAN'T HAVE IT
BOTH WAYS. INTERESTINGLY, HE
WENT TO COURT AND THEY APPLAUD
HIM FOR DOING THAT. HIS BOSS,
JOHN BOLTON NOW SAYS THERE IS NO
NECESSITY FOR HIM TO GO TO
COURT. HE DOESN'T HAVE TO DO IT.
HE IS WILLING
TO TESTIFY WHAT HE KNOWS. THE
QUESTION IS DO
YOU
WANT TO HEAR IT?
DO YOU WANT TO KNOW WHY IT WAS A
DRUG DEAL? DO YOU WANT TO ASK
HIM WHY IT WAS A DRUG DEAL? WHY
HE TOLD PEOPLE GO TALK TO THE
LAWYERS? YOU SHOULD WANT TO
KNOW. THEY DON'T WANT YOU TO
KNOW. THEY DON'T WANT YOU TOE
KNOW. THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T WANT
YOU TO KNOW. CAN YOU REALLY LIVE
UP TO THE OATH YOU HAVE TAKEN TO
BE IMPARTIAL AND NOT KNOW? I
DON'T THINK YOU CAN. NOW,
THEY ALSO MADE THE ARGUMENT THAT
ABUSE OF POWER IS NOT AN
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE. THEY HAD TO
GO TO A CRIMINAL DEFENSE LAWYER
TO MAKE THAT ARGUMENT BECAUSE NO
REPUTABLE CONSTITUTIONAL
LAW EXPERT WOULD DO THAT. THERE
IS A REASON JONATHAN TURLEY IS
NOT SITTING AT THE TABLE BECAUSE
HE DOESN'T SUPPORT THEIR
ARGUMENT. THEY WILL CITE HIM FOR
ONE THING BUT IGNORE HIM FOR THE
OTHER. THEY SAID THE PRESIDENT
IS VERY TRANSPARENT. HE MAY HAVE
REFUSED EVERY SUBPOENA
OR DOCUMENT. HE RELEASED TWO
DOCUMENTS. LET'S FACE IT. HE WAS
FORCED TO RELEASE THE RECORD OF
THE JULY 25th CALL. WHEN HE GOT
CAUGHT. WHEN A WHISTLE BLOWER
FILED A COMPLAINT. WHEN WE
OPENED AN INVESTIGATION. HE WAS
FORCED BECAUSE HE GOT CAUGHT.
YOU DON'T GET CREDIT FOR
TRANSPARENCY WHEN YOU GET
CAUGHT. ONCE MANUFACTURE, WHAT'S
REVEALED IN THAT IS DAMNING.
THEY POINT TO THE ONLY OTHER
RECORD HE RELEASED. THAT IS
INTERESTING TOO. THAT'S THE
CONGRATULATORY CALL. BUT WHAT'S
INTERESTING ABOUT IT IS THE
PRESIDENT WAS URGED ON THAT CALL
TO BRING UP THE ISSUE OF
CORRUPTION. AND INDEED IN THE
READ-OUT OF THAT CALL, THE WHITE
HOUSE MISLEADINGLY SAID HE DID.
NOW THAT WE HAVE SEEN THE
RECORD, WE SEE THAT HE DIDN'T.
AND NOTWITHSTANDING COUNSEL'S
CLAIM IN THEIR TRIAL BRIEF THAT
THE PRESIDENT RAISED THE ISSUE
OF CORRUPTION IN HIS PHONE CALL.
THE JULY 25 CALL. OF COURSE,
THAT WORD DOESN'T APPEAR IN
EITHER CONVERSATION. AND WHY?
BECAUSE THE ONLY CORRUPTION HE
CARED ABOUT WAS THE CORRUPTION
HE
COULD HELP BRING ABOUT. NOW.
MR.
CIPOLLONE, I WOULD NOT SUGGEST
TO YOU THAT HE WOULD
DELIBERATELY MAKE A FALSE
STATEMENT. I WOULD LEAVE THAT TO
HIM TO MAKE THE ALLEGATIONS
AGAINST
OTHERS BUT HE IS MISTAKEN. EVERY
REPUBLICAN WAS ALLOWED TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE DEPOSITIONS.
AND THEY GOT THE SAME TIME WE
DID. YOU SHOW ME ANOTHER
PROCEEDING THAT HAD THAT KIND OF
ACCESS FOR IF OPPOSITE PARTY.
WHAT THEY WOULD SAY WAS SOME
SECRET PROCESS. THEY WERE THE
SAME IN THESE OTHER IMPEACHMENTS
AS WELL. FINALLY, A COUPLE OF
LAST POINTS. THEY MAKE THE
ARGUMENT THE PRESIDENT WAS NOT
ALLOWED IN THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE CHAIR BY MY COLLEAGUE,
CHAIRMAN NADLER. TO BE PRESENT,
TO PRESENT EVERYDAY. TO HAVE HIS
COUNSEL PRESENT. THAT IS JUST
PLAIN WRONG. JUST PLAIN WRONG.
NOT GOING TO SUGGEST YOU ARE
BEING DELIBERATELY MISLEADING
HERE, BUT IT IS JUST PLAIN
WRONG. YOU HAVE ALSO HEARD MY
FRIENDS AT THE OTHER TABLE MAKE
ATTACKS ON ME AND CHAIRMAN
NADLER. I WILL DOT DO THEM THE
DIGNITY OF RESPONDING TO THEM.
BUT, THEY MAKE A VERY IMPORTANT
POINT, THOUGH IT IS NOT THE
POINT I THINK THEY ARE TRYING TO
MAKE. WHEN YOU HEAR THEM ATTACK
THE HOUSE MANAGERS, WHAT YOU ARE
REALLY HEARING IS WE DON'T WANT
TO TALK ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S
GUILT. WE DON'T WANT TO TALK
ABOUT THE MITCH MCCONNELL
RESOLUTION AND HOW PATENTLY
UNFAIR IT IS. WE DON'T WANT TO
TALK ABOUT HOW BACK WARDS IT IS
TO HAVE A TRIAL AND THEN ASK FOR
WITNESSES. IS
NAY WILL ATTACK THE
HOUSEMANNAGERS. MAYBE WE WILL
THINK ABOUT THEM INSTEAD OF THE
GUILT OF THE PRESIDENT. I WANT
YOU TO ASK YOURSELVES AWAY FROM
WHAT ISSUE ARE THEY TRYING TO
DISTRACT ME? WHAT ISSUE CAME UP
JUST BEFORE THIS? WHAT ARE THEY
TRYING TO DEFLECT MY ATTENTION
FROM? WHY DON'T THEY HAVE A
BETTER ARGUMENT TO
MAKE ON THE MERITS?
FINALLY, HE ASKED WHY ARE WE
HERE. I'LL TELL YOU WHY. BECAUSE
THE PRESIDENT USED THE POWER OF
HIS
OFFICE TO COERCE AN ALLY AT WAR
WITH AN ADVERSARY AT WAR WITH
RUSSIA. USED THE POWER OF HIS
OFFICE TO WITHHOLD MILITARY AID
WE APPROPRIATED TO DEFEND AN
ALLY AND DEFEND OURSELVES
BECAUSE IT IS OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY AS WELL. AND WHY? TO
FIGHT CORRUPTION? THAT'S NOT
SENSE. AND YOU KNOW IT. HE
WITHHELD THAT MONEY AND WITHHELD
MEETING WITH HIM IN THE OVAL
OFFICE, THE PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE. BECAUSE HE WANTED TO
COERCE UKRAINE INTO THESE SHAM
INVESTIGATIONS OF HIS OPPONENT
THAT HE WAS TERRIFIED WOULD BEAT
HIM IN THE NEXT ELECTION. THAT'S
WHAT THIS IS ABOUT. YOU WANT TO
SAY THAT IS OKAY? THEIR BRIEF
SAYS THAT'S OKAY. THE PRESIDENT
HAS A RIGHT TO DO IT. ON ARTICLE
2, WE HEARD THE PRESIDENT CAN DO
WHATEVER HE WANTS. YOU WANT TO
SAY THAT'S OKAY? YOU GOT TO SAY
EVERY FUTURE PRESIDENT CAN COME
INTO OFFICE AND THEY CAN DO THE
SAME THING. ARE WE PREPARED TO
SAY THAT? THAT'S WHY WE ARE
HERE. I NOW YIELD TO
REPRESENTATIVE.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE. SENATORS,
COUNCIL FOR THE PRESIDENT. THE
HOUSE MANAGERS STRONGLY SUPPORT
SENATOR SCHUMER'S AMENDMENT
WHICH WOULD ENSURE A FAIR,
LEGITIMATE TRIAL BASED ON A FULL
RECORD. THE SENATE CAN REMEDY
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S UNPRECEDENTED
COVER-UP BY TAKING A
STRAIGHTFORWARD STEP. IT CAN ASK
FOR THE KEY EVIDENCE THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS IMPROPERLY
BLOCKED. SENATOR SCHUMER'S
AMENDMENT DOES JUST THAT. THE
AMENDMENT AUTHORIZES THE
SUBPOENA FOR WHITE HOUSE
DOCUMENTS THAT ARE DIRECTLY
RELEVANT TO THIS CASE. THESE
DOCUMENTS FOCUS ON THE
PRESIDENT'S SCHEME TO STRONG ARM
UKRAINE TO ANNOUNCE AN
INVESTIGATION INTO HIS POLITICAL
OPPONENT, TO INTERFERE WITH THE
2020 ELECTION. THE DOCUMENTS
WILL REVEAL THE EXTENT OF THE
WHITE HOUSE'S COORDINATION WITH
THE PRESIDENT'S AGENTS SUCH AS
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND AND RUDY
GIULIANI. WHO PUSHED THE
PRESIDENT'S SO-CALLED DRUG DEAL
ON UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS. THE
DOCUMENTS WILL ALSO
SHOW US HOW KEY
PLAYERS IN THE WHITE HOUSE
HELPED SET UP THE DEAL BY
EXECUTING THE FREEZE ON ALL
MILITARY AID AND WITHHOLDING A
PROMISED VISIT TO THE WHITE
HOUSE. THE DOCUMENTS INCLUDE
RECORDS OF THE PEOPLE WHO MAY
HAVE OBJECTED TO THIS SCHEME
SUCH AS AMBASSADOR BOLTON. THIS
IS AN IMPORTANT IMPEACHMENT CASE
AGAINST THE PRESIDENT. THE MOST
IMPORTANT DOCUMENTS ARE GOING TO
BE AT THE WHITE HOUSE. THE
DOCUMENTS, SENATOR SCHUMER'S
AMENDMENT TARGETS, WOULD PROVIDE
MORE CLARITY AND CONTEXT ABOUT
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S SCHEME. THE
AMENDMENT PREVENTS THE PRESIDENT
FROM HIDING EVIDENCE AS HE HAS
PREVIOUSLY TRIED TO DO. NOW, THE
HOUSE SUBPOENAED THESE DOCUMENTS
AS PART OF THE IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY. BUT THE PRESIDENT
COMPLETELY REJECTED THIS. AND,
EVERY DOCUMENT SUBPOENAED FROM
THE HOUSE. AS POWERFUL AS OUR
EVIDENCE IS, AND MAKE NO
MISTAKE, IT OVERWHELMINGLY
PROVING HIS GUILT. WE DID NOT
RECEIVE A SINGLE DOCUMENT FROM
THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH AGENCY
INCLUDING THE WHITE HOUSE
ITSELF. RECENT REVELATIONS FROM
PRESS REPORTS, FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT REQUEST,
ADDITIONAL WITNESSES LIKE LEV
PARNAS UNDERSCORE HOW
RELEASED
VENT THESE DOCUMENTS AND WHY THE
PRESIDENT HAS BEEN SO DESPERATE
TO HIDE THEM. A TRIAL WITHOUT
ALL THE EVIDENCE WOULD BE AN
UNFAIR TRIAL. IT IS WRONG FOR
YOU AS SENATORS AND ACTING
JUDGES TO BE DEPRIVED WHEN YOU
ARE JUDGING THESE MOST SERIOUS
CHARGES. IT WOULD ALSO BE UNFAIR
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WHO
OVERWHELMINGLY BELIEVE THE
PRESIDENT SHOULD PRODUCE RECALL
RELEVANT DOCUMENTS AND EVIDENCE.
NOW, DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE IS
USED IN ALL TRIALS. FOR SIMPLE
REASON. AS THE STORY GOES, THE
DOCUMENTS DON'T LIE. DOCUMENTS
GIVE OBJECTIVE REALTIME INSIGHT
INTO THE EVENTS UNDER
INVESTIGATION. THE NEED FOR SUCH
EVIDENCE IS ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT
IN SENATE IMPEACHMENT TRIALS.
MORE THAN 200 YEARS OF SENATE
PRACTICE MAKE CLEAR THAT
DOCUMENTS ARE GENERALLY THE
FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS. THEY
HAVE BEEN PRESENTED OF THE
SENATE BEFORE WITNESSES TAKE THE
STAND IN GREAT VOLUME TO MAKE
SURE THE SENATE HAS THE EVIDENCE
IT NEEDS TO EVALUATE THE CASE.
IT HAS NEVER BEEN LIMITED TO THE
DOCUMENTS SENT BY THE HOUSE. THE
SENATE THROUGHOUT ITS EXISTENCE
HAS EXERCISED ITS AUTHORITY
PURSUANT TO ITS CLEAR RULES OF
PROCEDURE TO SUBPOENA DOCUMENTS
AT THE OUTSET OF THE TRIAL. WE
DON'T KNOW WITH CERTAINTY WHAT
THE DOCUMENTS WILL SAY. WE
SIMPLY WANT THE TRUTH. WHATEVER
THAT TRUTH MAY BE. SO DO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. THEY WANT TO
KNOW THE TRUTH AND SO SHOULD
EVERYBODY IN THIS CHAMBER
REGARDLESS OF OUR PARTY
AFFILIATION. THEY ARE A KEY
REASON WHY THIS AMENDMENT IS
NECESSARY. WE WILL BEGIN BY
WALKING THROUGH THE HISTORY AND
PRESENCE DENT OF SENATE
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS. I WILL LET
YOU KNOW ABOUT THE HOUSE'S
EFFORTS TO GET THE DOCUMENTS MET
BY THE PRESIDENT AND HIS
ADMINISTRATION'S CATEGORICAL
COMMITMENT TO HIDE ALL THE
EVIDENCE AT ALL COSTS AND WE
WILL ADDRESS A SPECIFIC NEED FOR
THESE SUBPOENAED WHITE HOUSE
DOCUMENTS. I WILL TELL YOU WHY
THESE DOCUMENTS ARE NEEDED NOW.
NOT AT THE END OF THE TRIAL. IN
ORDER TO ENSURE A FULL, FAIR
TRIAL BASED ON A COMPLETE
EVIDENCE RECORD. SOME HAVE
SUGGESTED INCORRECTLY THAT THE
SENATE IS LIMITED ONLY TO
EVIDENCE GATHERED BEFORE THE
HOUSE
APPROVED THE ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT. THESE CLAIMS ARE
WITHOUT ANY HISTORICAL
PRESIDENTIAL OR LEGAL
SUPPORT. OVER THE PAST TO
CENTURIES THE SENATE UNDERSTOOD
ITS SOLE TRIAL TO EMPOWER
IMPEACHMENT REQUIRES THE SENATE
TO SIT AS THE COURT OF
IMPEACHMENT AND HOLD A TRIAL. IN
FACT, THE FOUNDERS ASSIGNED SOLE
AUTHORITY ONLY TWICE IN THE
CONSTITUTION. FIRST GIVERRING
THE HOUSE SOLE AUTHORITY TO
IMPEACH. AND GIVING THE SENATE
SOLE AUTHORITY TO TRY THAT
IMPEACHMENT. IF THE FOUNDERS HAD
INTENDED FOR THE SENATE TO SERVE
AS SOME KIND OF APPELLATE BODY,
THEY WOULD HAVE SAID THAT. BUT
NO. INSTEAD THEY WROTE THIS.
ARTICLE ONE, SECTION 3. THE
SENATE SHALL HAVE THE SOLE POWER
TO TRY ALL IMPEACHMENTS. THE
SENATE HAS ALWAYS RECEIVED THE
RELEVANT DOCUMENTS IN
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS AND INDEED,
THE SENATE'S OWN RULES OF
PROCEDURE AND PRACTICE MAY CLEAR
THAT NEW EVIDENCE WILL BE
CONSIDERED. PRECEDENT SHOWS
THIS. ALL 15 FULL SENATE
IMPEACHMENT
TRIALS CONSIDERED NEW  EVIDENCE.
THE FIRST EVER PRESIDENTIAL
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IN 1868
AGAINST PRESIDENT ANDREW JOHNSON
ALLOWED THE HOUSE MANAGERS TO
SPEND THE FIRST TWO DAYS OF THE
TRIAL INTRODUCING NEW
DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE. IT WAS THE
SAME IN JUDGE JOHN PICKERRING'S
TRIAL IN 1804. NEW DOCUMENTS
WERE PRESENTED TO THE SENATE
NEARLY A WEEK BEFORE HOUSE
MANAGERS MADE THEIR OPENING
STATEMENT. AND LATER THROUGHOUT
THE TRIAL. AND AS MENTIONED
EARLIER BY  MR. SCHIFF, IN
MODERN TIMES IN 2010, JUDGE
PORTIER'S TRIAL INCLUDED SEVEN
MONTHS OF PRETRIAL DISCOVERY AND
6,000 PAGES OF DOCUMENTARY
EVIDENCE ADMITTED AT TRIAL AFTER
THAT EVIDENCE WAS ADMITTED, THE
SENATE HELD ITS TRIAL. PRESIDENT
CLINTON'S CASE DID NOT INVOLVE
SUBPOENAS FOR DOCUMENTS. AND WHY
WAS THAT? BECAUSE PRESIDENT
CLINTON HAD ALREADY INTRODUCED A
HUGE TROVE OF DOCUMENTS. THE
COUNSEL TURNED OVER TO CONGRESS
SOME 90,000 PAGES OF RELEVANT
DOCUMENTS GATHERED DURING THE
COURSE OF HIS YEARS LONG
INVESTIGATION. AND I REMEMBER AS
A MEMBER OF THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE GOING OVER TO THE FORD
BUILDING, LOOKING AT THE BOXES
OF THE DOCUMENTS. BUT, EVEN WITH
ALL THOSE DOCUMENTS, THE CLINTON
TRIAL INCLUDED THE OPPORTUNITY
TO PRESENT NEW EVIDENCE. AND,
THE ADMISSION OF ADDITIONAL
DOCUMENTS AND THREE WITNESSES.
THE CLINTON IMPEACHMENT
PRECEDENT ALSO SHOWS HOW
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S REFUSAL TO
PRODUCE ANY RELEVANT DOCUMENTS
IN RESPONSE TO CONGRESSIONAL
SUBPOENAS IS DIFFERENT THAN PAST
PRESIDENTS. DIFFERENT FROM
PRESIDENT CLINTON. DIFFERENT
FROM PRESIDENT JOHNSON. AND,
EVEN PRESIDENT NIXON. NOT A
SINGLE PRESIDENT HAS
CATEGORICALLY REFUSED TO
COOPERATE WITH AN IMPEACHMENT
INVESTIGATION. NOT A SINGLE
PRESIDENT HAS ISSUED A BLANKET
DIRECTION TO HIS ADMINISTRATION
TO PRODUCE NO DOCUMENTS. AND NO
WITNESSES. THESE ARE THE
PRECEDENTS A SENATE MUST RELY
ON. THE SENATE SHOULD ISSUE A
SUBPOENA FOR DOCUMENTS AT THE
OUTSET OF THE PROCEEDINGS SO
THAT THIS BODY, THE HOUSE
MANAGERS, THE PRESIDENT, CAN ALL
ACCOUNT FOR THOSE DOCUMENTS IN
THEIR PRESENTATIONS AND
DELIBERATIONS. IT DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE TO REQUEST AND RECEIVE
DOCUMENTS AFTER THE PARTIES
PRESENT THEIR CASES. THE TIME IS
NOW TO DO THAT. SO WHY IS THE
AMENDMENT NEEDED TO PREVENT
PRESIDENT TRUMP FROM CONTINUING
HIS CATEGORICAL COMMITMENT TO
HIDE THE EVIDENCE? IN THIS CASE,
THE HOUSE SOUGHT WHITE HOUSE
DOCUMENTS. WHY DON'T WE HAVE
THEM? NOT BECAUSE WE DIDN'T TRY.
IT IS BECAUSE THE WHITE HOUSE
REFUSED TO GIVE THEM TO US. THE
PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE TEAM SEEMS
TO BELIEVE THAT THE WHITE HOUSE
IS PERMITTED TO COMPLETELY
REFUSE TO PROVIDE ANY DOCUMENTS
WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER OR NOT
IT IS PRIVILEGED. THEY
APPARENTLY BELIEVE THAT
CONGRESS' AUTHORITY IS SUBJECT
TO THE APPROVAL OF THE
PRESIDENT. BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT
THE CONSTITUTION SAYS. OUR
CONSTITUTION SETS FORTH A
DEMOCRACY WITH A SYSTEM OF
CHECKS AND BALANCES TO ENSURE
THAT NO ONE, CERTAINLY NOT THE
PRESIDENT, IS ABOVE THE LAW.
NOW, EVEN PRESIDENT NIXON
PRODUCED MORE THAN 30
TRANSCRIPTS OF WHITE HOUSE
RECORDINGS AN NOTES FOR MEETING
WITH THE PRESIDENT. HERE, EVEN
BEFORE THE HOUSE LAUNCHED
INVESTIGATION THAT LED TO
THIS TRIAL, PRESIDENT TRUMP
REJECTED CONGRESS'
CONSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITY TO
USE ITS LAWFUL AUTHORITY TO
INVESTIGATE HIS ACTIONS. HE
ASSERTED HI ADMINISTRATION WAS
FIGHTING ALL THE SUBPOENAS.
PROCLAIMING I HAVE AN ARTICLE 2.
OR I HAVE THE RIGHT TO DO
WHATEVER I WANT AS PRESIDENT.
HERE IS WHAT HE SAID.
>> THEN I HAVE AN ARTICLE 2
WHERE I HAVE THE RIGHT TO DO
WHATEVER I WANT AS PRESIDENT.
>> EVEN AFTER THE HOUSE FORMALLY
ANNOUNCED THE INVESTIGATION IN
UKRAINE, THE PRESIDENT STILL
CONTINUED HIS OBSTRUCTION
BEGINNING SEPTEMBER 9, 2019. THE
HOUSE INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE
MADE TWO ATTEMPTS TO VOLUNTARILY
OBTAIN DOCUMENTS FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE. THE WHITE HOUSE REFUSED
TO ENGAGE WITH OR FRANKLY
RESPOND FOUNDER THE HOUSE
COMMITTEES. ON OCTOBER 4, THE
HOUSE COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND
REFORM SENT A SUBPOENA TO WHITE
HOUSE ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF MICK
MULVANEY. THIS TIME COMPELLING
THE PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS BY
OCTOBER 18. ON OCTOBER 8 BEFORE
THE WHITE HOUSE DOCUMENTS WERE
DUE, THE WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL
SENT A LETTER TO SPEAKER PELOSI
STATING THE PRESIDENT'S POSITION
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP AND HIS
ADMINISTRATION CANNOT
PARTICIPATE IN THIS
PARTISAN INQUIRY UNDER THESE
CIRCUMSTANCES. HE SIMPLY
DECLARED HE WOULD NOT
PARTICIPATE IN AN INVESTIGATION
HE DIDN'T LIKE. TEN DAYS LATER
ON OCTOBER 18, THE WHITE HOUSE
COUNSEL SENT A LETTER TO THE
HOUSE CONFIRMING IT IS WOULD
CONTINUE TO STONEWALL. THE
COUNSEL AGAIN STATED THE
PRESIDENT REFUSED TO
PARTICIPATE. WELL, THE
CONSTITUTION, ARTICLE 1 SECTION
2 SAYS THE HOUSE WILL HAVE THE
SOLE POWER OF IMPEACHMENT. JUST
AS ARTICLE 1 SECTION 3, THE
SENATE HAS THE SOLE POWER TO
TRY. PARTICIPATION IN A DUALLY
AUTHORIZED CONGRESSIONAL
INVESTIGATION IS NOT OPTIONAL.
IT IS NOT UP TO THE PRESIDENT TO
DECIDE WHETHER TO PARTICIPATE OR
NOT. THE CONSTITUTION GIVES THE
HOUSE THE SOLE POWER OF
IMPEACHMENT, IT GIVES THE SENATE
THE SOLE POWER OF TRY ON
IMPEACHMENT. THE PRESIDENT MAY
NOT LIKE BEING IMPEACHED. BUT
IT'S THE PRESIDENT, NOT THE
CONGRESS DECIDES WHEN
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS ARE
APPROPRIATE, THEN, THE
IMPEACHMENT POWER IS NO POWER AT
ALL. IF YOU LET HIM BLOCK FROM
CONGRESS AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE, THE EVIDENCE TO COVER UP
HIS OFFENSES, THEN, THE
IMPEACHMENT POWER TRULY WILL BE
MEANINGLESS.
WITH ALL THE BACK AND FORTH
ABOUT THESE DOCUMENTS, WE HEARD
THE PHRASE EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE.
THEY TALK ABOUT VAST LEGAL
RIGHTS TO JUSTIFY HIDING THE
TRUTH, WITHHOLDING INFORMATION.
BUT THAT'S A DISTRACTION. THAT'S
NOT WHAT THE CONSTITUTION
PROVIDES AND THE TRUTH IS AS
MENTIONED BY  MR. SCHIFF, IN THE
COURSE OF THE ENTIRE IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY, PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS NOT
ONCE ASSERTED EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE. NOT A SINGLE TIME. IT
WAS NOT THE REASON
PROVIDED BY  MR. CIPOLLONI FOR
REFUSING TO COMPLY. HE DID NOT
OFFER LEGAL JUSTIFICATIONS FOR
WITHHOLDING THE EVIDENCE. HERE'S
THE TRUTH. MEMBERS OF CONGRESS,
JUDGES T SUPREME COURT, AND THE
PRESIDENT, HAVE RECOGNIZED
THROUGHOUT OUR NATION'S HISTORY
THAT CONGRESS' INVESTIGATIVE
POWER ARE AT THEIR
ABSOLUTE PEAK DURING IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS. YOUR POWERS,
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE CANNOT BE A
BARRIER TO GIVE ABSOLUTE SECRECY
TO COVER UP WRONG DOING. IF IT
DID, THE HOUSE AND THE SENATE
WOULD SEE THEIR POWER DISAPPEAR.
WHEN PRESIDENT NIXON TRIED THAT
ARGUMENT BY REFUSING TO PRODUCE
TAPE RECORDINGS TO PROSECUTORS
AND TO CONGRESS HE WAS SOUNDLY
REBUKED BY THE OTHER TWO
BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT. THE
SUPREME COURT UNANIMOUSLY RULED
AGAINST HIM. THE HOUSE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE VOTED HE BE IMPEACHED
FOR OBSTRUCTION OF CONGRESS. IT
WOULD BE REMARKABLE FOR THE
UNITED STATES SENATE TO DECLARE
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN OUR
NATION'S HISTORY THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS A ABSOLUTE RIGHT
TO DECIDE WHETHER HIS OWN
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IS LEGITIMATE.
AND IT WOULD BE EXTRAORDINARY
FOR THE SENATE TO REFUSE TO SEEK
IMPORTANT DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE,
ESPECIALLY WHEN THE PRESIDENT
HAS YET TO ASSERT ANY PRIVILEGE
JUSTIFYING THE WITHHOLDING OF
THE DOCUMENTS. THERE IS ANOTHER
REASON THIS AMENDMENT IS
IMPORTANT. THE DOCUMENTS SOUGHT
ARE DIRECTLY RELEVANT TO THE
PRESIDENT'S MISCONDUCT. THE
WHITE HOUSE IS CONCEALING
DOCUMENTS INVOLVING OFFICIALS
WHO HAVE DIRECT KNOWLEDGE OF KEY
EVENTS AT THE HEART OF THIS
TRIAL. THIS ISN'T JUST A GUESS.
WE KNOW THESE DOCUMENTS EXIST
FROM THE WITNESSES WHO TESTIFIED
IN THE HOUSE AND FROM OTHER
PUBLIC RELEASE OF DOCUMENTS. AND
LET'S WALK THROUGH THOSE
SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE SHOULD SEND TO THE
SENATE. THEY INCLUDE AMONG OTHER
DOCUMENTS, RELATING TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DIRECT COMMUNICATIONS
WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY,
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S REQUEST FOR
POLITICAL INVESTIGATIONS
INCLUDING COMMUNICATIONS WITH
RUDY GIULIANI, AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND, AND OTHERS. PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S UNLANDFALL HOLD OF THE
$391 MILLION OF MILITARY AID.
CONCERNS THAT WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS REPORTED TO NFC LEGAL
COUNSEL IN REALTIME T. DECISION
TO CALL AMBASSADOR MARIE
YOVANOVITCH FROM UKRAINE. THE
SENATE SHOULD GET ABOUT
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S COMMUNICATIONS
WITH THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE,
THE PHONE CALLS ON APRIL 21 AND
JULY 25. AS WELL AS THE
SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY IN NEW YORK.
WE KNOW FOR EXAMPLE THAT NSC
OFFICIALS PREPARED TALKING
POINTS FOR THE PRESIDENT IN
PREPARATION FOR BOTH CALLS WITH
THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT. THE
TALKING POINTS WERE ABOUT
AMERICAN POLICY. AS REFLECTED BY
THE VOTES OF CONGRESS AS WELL AS
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION ITSELF.
THEY DIDN'T INCLUDE ANY MENTION
OF THE BIDENS WITH THE 2016
ELECTION INTERFERENCE OR
INVESTIGATIONS THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP REQUESTED ON THE JULY 25
CALL. HERE IS A CLIP OF
LIEUTENANT COLONEL VINDMAN
EXPLAINING THOUSAND PRESIDENT
IGNORED THE POINTS ABOUT
AMERICAN POLICY REFLECTING THE
VIEWS OF BOTH
CONGRESS AND THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION.
>>> IF I COULD TURN YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE APRIL 21 CALL
BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. DID YOU
PREPARE TALKING POINTS FOR THE
PRESIDENT TO USE IN THAT CALL?
>> YES I DID.
>> DID THEY INCLUDE ROOTING OUT
CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE?
>> YES.
>> THAT WAS SOMETHING THE
PRESIDENT WAS SUPPOSED TO RAISE
IN THE CONVERSATION WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY?
>> THOSE WERE THE RECOMMENDED
TALKING POINTS FOR THE
PRESIDENT. YES.
>> THE MATERIALS PROVIDED FOR
THE JULY 25 CALL THAT LIEUTENANT
COLONEL VINDMAN MENTIONED ARE
HIGHLY RELEVANT. THEY COULD HELP
CONFIRM THE PRESIDENT'S ACTUAL
STATEMENTS, THAT TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY WERE UNRELATED TO THE
FOREIGN POLICY OBJECTIVES OF HIS
OWN ADMINISTRATION AND SHOW THEY
SERVED HIS OWN PERSONAL INTEREST
AT THE EXPENSE
OF AMERICA'S NATIONAL SECURITY
INTERESTS. THESE DOCUMENTS
INCLUDE HANDWRITTEN NOTES AND
OTHER DOCUMENTS WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS GENERATED DURING THE
CALLS AND MEETING. WE KNOW THAT
LIEUTENANT COLONEL VINDMAN,  MR.
MORRISON, JENNIFER WILLIAMS, ALL
TESTIFIED TO TAKING
CONTEMPORANEOUS HANDWRITTEN
NOTES DURING THE JULY 25 CALL.
MS. WILLIAMS AND LIEUTENANT
COLONEL VINDMAN BOTH TESTIFIED
THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY MADE AN
EXPLICIT REFERENCE THAT WAS NOT
INCLUDED IN THE MEMORANDUM THAT
THE WHITE HOUSE RELEASED TO THE
PUBLIC. HERE IS
A CLIP OF THEIR TESTIMONY.
>> BOTH OF YOU RECALL PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY IN THAT CONVERSATION
RAISING THE ISSUE OR
MENTIONING BARISMA. YET IT
APPEARS NOWHERE IN THE CALL
RECORD RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC.
>> CORRECT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> WHY YOU NEED DOCUMENTS
GENERATED AFTER THE CALLS IN
MEETINGS? IT WOULD SHED LIGHT ON
HOW THESE EVENTS WERE PERCEIVED
IN THE WHITE HOUSE OF WHAT
ACTIONS WERE TAKEN MOVING
FORWARD. FOR EXAM 38, NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISER JOHN BOLTON WAS
NOT ON THE JULY 25 CALL BUT HE
WAS INFORMED ABOUT THE CONTENT
OF THE CALL AFTERWARD. HIS
REACTION, ONCE HE WAS INFORMED,
WOULD BE HELPFUL TO
UNDERSTANDING THE EXTENT TO
WHICH PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ACTION
DEVIATED FROM AMERICAN POLICY
AND AMERICAN SECURITY INTEREST.
THERE IS ANOTHER SET OF
DOCUMENTS THE SENATE SHOULD GET
RELATED TO THE POLITICAL
INVESTIGATIONS THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND HIS AGENTS REPEATEDLY
ASK UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS TO
ANNOUNCE. THESE DOCUMENTS ABOUT
EFFORTS TO PRESSURE UKRAINE TO
ANNOUNCE INVESTIGATIONS AND THE
DECISION TO PLACE A HOLD ON
MILITARY AID TO UKRAINE. IT
WOULD BE VERY IMPORTANT FOR YOU
TO EVALUATE THE PRESIDENT'S
CONDUCT. AMBASSADOR BOLTON IS A
FIRSTHAND WITNESS TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S ABUSE OF POWER. HE
REPORTED DIRECTLY TO THE
PRESIDENT. HE SUPERVISED THE
ENTIRE STAFF
OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL. PUBLIC REPORTS INDICATE
HE IS A VORACIOUS NOTE TAKER
EVERY MEETING. FROM WITNESS
TESTIMONY, WE KNOW AMBASSADOR
BOLTON HOSTED THE JULY 10, 2019
MEETING WHERE AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND TOLD UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS THAT THE PROMISED
WHITE HOUSE MEETING WOULD BE
SCHEDULED IF THEY ANNOUNCE THE
INVESTIGATION. WE KNOW BOLTON
WAS BRIEFED ABOUT THIS MEETING
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING IT. WHEN
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAID HE HAD
A DEAL WITH MICK MULVANEY TO
SCHEDULE THE PROMISED WHITE
HOUSE MEETING IF UKRAINE
ANNOUNCED INVESTIGATIONS INTO
THE BIDENS. IN THE 2016
ELECTION. WE KNOW AMBASSADOR
BOLTON WAS INVOLVED IN BRIEFING
THE PRESIDENT IN AUGUST.
REFLECTING THE OPINION THAT SAID
IT WAS VITAL TO AMERICA'S
NATIONAL SECURITY. SOMETHING
CONGRESS HAD APPROVED,
APPROPRIATED. SOMETHING THE
PRESIDENT HAD SIGNED. PRESS
INDICATES HE WAS INVOLVED IN AN
OFFICE IMMEDIATING WHERE HE,
SECRETARY POMPEO, AND SECRETARY
ESPER ALL TRIED TO CONVINCE THE
PRESIDENT TO RELEASE THE AID.
AMBASSADOR BOLTON HAS COME
FORWARD TO CONFIRM HE WAS AN
WITNESS TO IMPORTANT EVENTS AND
ALSO HE HAS NEW EVIDENCE THAT NO
ONE HAS SEEN YET. IF WE KNOW
THERE IS EVIDENCE THAT HAS NOT
COME OUT, ALL OF US SHOULD WANT
TO HEAR IT. WE SHOULD WANT TO
HEAR IT NOW BEFORE AMBASSADOR
BOLTON TESTIFIES. WE SHOULD GET
DOCUMENTS AND RECORDS RELATEING
TO HIS TESTIMONY INCLUDING HIS
NOTES PROVIDING CONTEMPORANEOUS
EVIDENCE ABOUT WHAT WAS
DISCUSSED IN MEETINGS RELATE
TODAY UKRAINE WHICH WOULD HELP
TO EVALUATE HIS TESTIMONY. THE
EVIDENCE IS NOT JUST RESTRICTED
TO AMBASSADOR BOLTON DURING HIS
PUBLIC TESTIMONY. AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND EXPLAINED I HAVE NOT
HAD ACCESS TO ALL OF MY PHONE
RECORDS. HE AND HIS LAWYERS HAD
ASKED REPEATEDLY FOR THESE
MATERIALS. THEY WOULD HELP
REFRESH HIS MEMORY. WE SHOULD
LOOK AT THAT MATERIAL.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND ALSO
TESTIFIED HE EXCHANGED A NUMBER
OF EMAILS WITH TOP OFFICIALS
LIKE MICK MULVANEY ABOUT HIS
EFFORTS TO PRESSURE UKRAINE TO
ANNOUNCE THE INVESTIGATION
PRESIDENT TRUMP DEMANDED. HERE
IS HIS
TESTIMONY.
>> LET ME SAY PRECISELY BECAUSE
WE DID NOT THINK WE WERE
ENGAGING WITH IMPROPER BEHAVIOR.
WE MADE EVERY EFFORT TO ENSURE
THAT THE RELEVANT DECISION
MAKERS AT THE SECURITY COUNCIL
AND THE STATE DEPARTMENT KNEW
THE IMPORTANT DETAILS OF OUR
EFFORTS. THE SUGGESTION THAT WE
WERE ENGAGED IN SOME IRREGULAR
OR ROGUE DIPLOMACY IS ABSOLUTELY
FALSE. I HAVE NOW IDENTIFIED
CERTAIN
STATE DEPARTMENT EMAILS AND
MESSAGES. THAT PROVIDE
CONTEMPORARYDOWN SUPPORT FOR MY
VIEW. THEY SHOW THE LEADERSHIP
OF THE STATE DEPARTMENT, THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL AND
THE WHITE HOUSE WERE ALL
INFORMED ABOUT THE UKRAINE
EFFORT FROM MAY 23, 2019 UNTIL
THE SECURITY AID WAS
RELEASED ON SEPTEMBER 11th,
2019.
>> THESE EMAILS AMONG OTHERS ARE
IN THE POSSESSION. OH.
>> PRECISE.
>> THESE EMAILS REFERENCED IN
THIS TESTIMONY ARE IN THE
POSSESSION OF THE WHITE HOUSE,
THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND THE
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY SINCE ALL
THREE ENTITIES COMMUNICATED
TOGETHER. DURING HIS TESTIMONY,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND DESCRIBED IT
THIS WAY. EVERYONE WAS IN THE
LOOP. IT WAS NO SECRET. THESE
EMAILS ARE THEREFORE IMPORTANT
IN UNDERSTANDING THE FULL SCOPE
OF THE SCHEME. THE REQUEST FOR
RELEVANT EVIDENCE IS NOT
CONFINED TO TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIALS. THE SENATE SHOULD GET
WHITE HOUSE RECORDS RELATING TO
THE PRESIDENT'S PRIVATE AGENTS.
WHO ACTED ON
HIS  BEHALF IN
UKRAINE. WITNESS TESTIMONY AND
DOCUMENTS HAVE MADE CLEAR THAT
MR. GIULIANI, A FREQUENT VISITOR
TO THE WHITE HOUSE WHO ALSO
RECEIVED AND MADE FREQUENT CALLS
TO THE WHITE HOUSE, WAS ACTING
ON BEHALF OF THE PRESIDENT TO
PRESS UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS TO
ANNOUNCE INVESTIGATIONS THAT
WOULD PERSONALLY AND POLITICALLY
BENEFIT THE PRESIDENT. FOR
EXAMPLE, THE MAY 10th, 2019
LETTER FROM  MR. GIULIANI, TO
PRESIDENT ELECT ZELENSKY SHOWN
ON THIS SLIDE STATES HE WAS
ACTING "AS PERSONAL COUNSEL" TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP WITH HIS
KNOWLEDGE AND CONSENT. HE
REQUESTED A MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT ELECT. TO BE JOINED BY
MISS TENSING WHO WAS "VERY
FAMILIAR" WITH THIS MATTER. THE
EVIDENCE INDICATES HE WAS
COLLABORATING WITH THEM IN THIS
EFFORT. THE SENATE SHOULD GET
THE WHITE HOUSE RECORDS OF
MEETINGS, CALLS INVOLVING  MR.
GIULIANI. THESE RECORDS ARE
IMPORTANT TO HELP YOU UNDERSTAND
THE EXTENT TO WHICH THE WHITE
HOUSE WAS INVOLVED IN  MR.
GIULIANI'S EFFORTS TO COERCE
UKRAINE TO ANNOUNCE THE
INVESTIGATION THE PRESIDENT
WANTED. THE RECORDS WOULD ALSO
SHOW HOW THE PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL POLITICAL AGENDA BECAME
MORE IMPORTANT THAN POLICIES TO
HELP AMERICA'S NATIONAL SECURITY
INTEREST. THE PRESIDENT'S
COUNCIL MADE CONSISTENT WITH HIS
PRIOR ATTEMPT TO HIDE EVIDENCE
ASSERT THAT ATTORNEY CLIENT
PRIVILEGE WOULD COVER THESE
DOCUMENTS. BUT, THE PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL ATTORNEY CLIENT
PRIVILEGE CANNOT SHIELD EVIDENCE
OF MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE. OR THAT
OF HIS AIDES OR HIS LAWYER'S
PARTICIPATIONS IN CORRUPT
SCHEMES. WE ARE NOT ASKING FOR
DOCUMENTS REFLECTING LEGITIMATE
LEGAL ADVICE. YOU NEED DOCUMENTS
ABOUT THEIR ACTIONS TO PRESSURE
UKRAINE TO ANNOUNCE AN
INVESTIGATION INTO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S POLITICAL OPPONENT.
THERE IS A SET OF WHITE HOUSE
DOCUMENTS THAT RELATE DIRECTLY
TO THE
PRESIDENT'S UNLAWFUL DECISION
TO WITHHOLD $391 MILLION
APPROPRIATED BIPARTISAN TO HELP
UKRAINE. WITNESSES HAVE
TESTIFIED THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
DIRECTLY ORDERED A HOLD ON THIS
SECURITY ASSISTANCE DESPITE THE
OPINION OF HIS AGENCIES THAT THE
AID SHOULD BE RELEASED.
IMPORTANTLY, ACCORDING TO THE
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY
OFFICE, HIS ACTIONS VIOLATED THE
LAW. THE GAO, AN INDEPENDENT
WATCHDOG, ISSUED A LEGAL OPINION
FINDING THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
VIOLATED THE LAW WHEN HE HELD UP
SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE.
THE GAO SAID, AND I QUOTE,
FAITHFUL EXECUTION OF A LAW DOES
NOT PERMIT THE PRESIDENT TO
SUBSTITUTE HIS OWN POLICY
PRIORITIES TO THOSE THAT
CONGRESS ENACTED INTO LAW. OMB
WITHHELD FUNDS FOR A POLICY
REASON WHICH IS NOT PERMITTED
UNDER THE EMPOWERMENT CONTROL
ACT. THE WITHHOLDING WAS NOT.
THEREFORE, WE CONCLUDE THAT OMB
VIOLATED THE ICA. THE FACT THAT
THE PRESIDENT'S ACTION TO FREEZE
THE AID WHICH HE USED TO
PRESSURE UKRAINE TO ANNOUNCE THE
POLITICAL INVESTIGATIONS HE
WANTED, WAS AGAINST NOT ONLY THE
OFFICIAL CONSENSUS OF HIS OWN
ADMINISTRATION, BUT ALSO,
AGAINST THE LAW. AND IT WAS TO
HELP HIMSELF. THAT HELPS
DEMONSTRATE THESE ACTIONS WERE
TAKEN FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
PERSONAL AND POLITICAL BENEFIT.
WITNESS TESTIMONY AND PUBLIC
REPORTING MADE CLEAR, THE WHITE
HOUSE HAS A SIGNIFICANT BODY OF
DOCUMENTS THAT RELATE TO THESE
KEY ASPECTS OF THE PRESIDENT'S
SCHEME. SOME OF THESE OUTLINE
THE PLANNING OF THE PRESIDENT'S
FREEZE. FOR EXAMPLE, THE NEW
YORK TIMES REPORTED IN JUNE THAT
MR. MULVANEY EMAILED HIS SENIOR
ADVISER  MR. BLAIR. IF WE EVER
FIND OUT ABOUT THE MONEY FOR
UKRAINE AND WHETHER WE
CAN HOLD IT BACK? THIS SHOWS
THAT  MR. MULVANEY WAS IN EMAIL
CONTACT WITH HIS AIDES ABOUT THE
VERY ISSUES UNDER INVESTIGATION
AS PART OF THIS IMPEACHMENT. IT
TELLS US THE WHITE HOUSE IS IN
INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNICATION
THAT'S GO TO THE HEART OF THE
CHARGES BEFORE YOU. THE SENATE
SHOULD ALSO GET MATERIALS
PREPARED FOR SUMMARY MOTES FOR
THE LATE AUGUST MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP, SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE MARK ESPER AND SECRETARY
OF STATE MIKE POMPEO WHEN THEY
TRIED TO CONVINCE THE PRESIDENT
THAT FREEING AND THIS IS A
QUOTE, FREEING UP THE MONEY FOR
UKRAINE WAS THE RIGHT THING TO
DO. ACCORDING TO THE NEW YORK
TIMES, AMBASSADOR BOLTON TOLD
THE PRESIDENT THIS IS IN
AMERICA'S INTEREST. THE SENATE
SHOULD REVIEW THAT HIGHLY
RELEVANT DOCUMENT WHICH REFLECTS
REALTIME ASSERTIONS BY PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S OWN SENIOR AID THAT
UKRAINIAN AID WAS IN THE
NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF
THE UNITED STATES. THERE ARE
DOCUMENTS THAT INCLUDE AFTER THE
FACT. JUSTIFICATIONS TO TRY AND
OVERCOME.
THEY HAVE REFUSED TO PRODUCE
THESE DOCUMENTS AT THE DIRECTION
OF THE PRESIDENT IN THE HOUSE OF
THE LAWFUL SUBPOENA IN THE
WASHINGTON POST SAID THAT A
WHITE HOUSE REVIEW OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DECISION TO HOLD UP
HUNDREDS OF DOCUMENTS THAT
REVEAL EXTENSIVE EFFORTS TO
GENERATE AN AFTER-THE-FACT
JUSTIFICATION FOR THE DEBATE OF
WHETHER THE DEFENDANT WAS LEGAL.
THAT IS KNOWN AS A COVER-UP. THE
WHITE HOUSE LAWYERS UNCOVERED
EARLY AUGUST EMAIL EXCHANGE
BETWEEN THE ACTING CHIEF OF
STAFF, NICK MULVANEY AND THE
WHITE HOUSE BUDGET OFFICIALS
SEEKING TO PROVIDE SOME
EXPLANATION FOR WITHHOLDING THE
FUNDS THE PRESIDENT HAD ALREADY
ORDERED.
THE DOCUMENTS ALSO REPORTEDLY
INCLUDE COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS AND
OUTSIDE AGENCIES AND NOT ONLY
DOES CONGRESS HAVE A RIGHT TO
SEE THEM BUT THE PUBLIC DOES TOO
UNDER
INFORMATION LAWS. AS A MATTER OF
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY, THE
SENATE HAS THE GREATEST INTEREST
IN AND THE RIGHT TO COMPEL THOSE
DOCUMENTS.
INDEED, AS THE NEWS ARTICLE
EXPLAINS, WHITE HOUSE LAWYERS
ARE REPORTEDLY WORRIED ABOUT
UNFLATTERING EXCHANGES AND FACTS
THAT COULD AT A MINIMUM
EMBARRASSED THE PRESIDENT.
PERHAPS THEY SHOULD BE WORRIED
ABOUT THAT BUT THE RISK OF
EMBARRASSMENT CANNOT OUTWEIGH
THE CONSTITUTIONAL INTEREST IN
THIS IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDING. ANY
EVIDENCE OF GUILT INCLUDING
FURTHER PROOF OF THE REAL REASON
THE PRESIDENT ORDERED THE FUNDS
WITHHELD OR AFTER-THE-FACT
ATTEMPT
FOR THE KNOWINGLY UNLAWFUL
CONDUCT, THEY MUST BE PROVIDED
TO ENSURE A FULL AND FAIR TRIAL.
NO PRIVILEGE OR NATIONAL
SECURITY RATIONALE CAN BE USED
AS A SHIELD. FROM DISCLOSING
MISCONDUCT. THE KEY WHITE HOUSE
DOCUMENTS RELATE TO MULTIPLE
INSTANCES WHEN WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS REPORTED THEIR
CONCERNS AND THE WHITE HOUSE
LAWYERS ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S
SCHEME TO PRESS UKRAINE TO DO
THE PRESIDENT A DOMESTIC
POLITICAL FAVOR. LIEUTENANT
COLONEL WOMEN INFORMED LAWYERS
ABOUT THE JULY 10 MEETING IT IN
WHICH AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
REVEALED THAT HE HAD A DEAL
WITH MR. MULVANEY. I WILL GO
DIRECTLY TO THE CLIP BY DR. HILL
BECAUSE
DR. HILL ALSO REPORTED THAT
MEETING TO JOHN EISENBERG AS SHE
EXPLAINED IN HER TESTIMONY.
>> I HAD A DISCUSSION WITH
AMBASSADOR BOLTON BEFORE THE
MEETING AND THEN AFTER.
>> THE SUBSEQUENT MEETING
OR AFTER BOTH MEETINGS WHEN YOU
SPOKE TO HIM AND RELAYED TO HIM
WHAT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAID,
WHAT DID AMBASSADOR  ALTON SAY
TO YOU?
>> I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT FIRST OF
ALL  THAT AMBASSADOR BOLTON
WANTED ME TO HOLD BACK IN THE
ROOM AFTER THE MEETING. I WAS
SITTING HERE.
>> IN THE SECOND MEETING --
>> HE WAS MAKING A STRONG POINT
THAT HE WANTED TO KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT WAS BEING SAID AND WHEN I
CAME BACK, HE HAD SOME VERY
SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS FOR ME
.
>> WHAT WERE THE SPECIFIC
INSTRUCTIONS?
>> THAT I HAD TO GO TO THE
LAWYERS  AND TO JOHN EISENBERG
AND THE SENIOR COUNSEL TO
BASICALLY SAY YOU TELL EISENBERG
THAT I AM NOT PART OF WHATEVER
DRUG DEAL THAT MULVANEY AND
SONDLAND ARE COOKING UP.
>> WHAT DID YOU
EXPECT TO BE BY THE DRUG DEAL?
>> I TOOK IT TO MEAN
INVESTIGATIONS FOR A MEETING .
>> DID YOU SPEAK TO THE LAWYERS?
>> I CERTAINLY DID .
>> YOU RELATE EVERYTHING THAT
YOU JUST TOLD US?
>> I DID AND THEN THE DETAILS
OF HOW THERE WAS A FOLDER AND I
GIVE A TOTAL DESCRIPTION IN MY
DEPOSITION.
>> THERE WAS SOMETHING WRONG
GOING ON HERE AND WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS WERE TOLD REPEATEDLY
TO TELL THE LAWYERS NOTHING
ABOUT IT.
MR. MORRISON WHO REPORTED AT
LEAST TWO CONVERSATIONS, WE NEED
THE NOTES OF THOSE DOCUMENTS TO
FIND OUT WHAT WAS SAID AND AGAIN
THE ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE
CANNOT SHIELD INFORMATION ABOUT
MISCONDUCT
FOR THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL FOR
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
NOW, IT IS INTERESTING. THE
CINNAMON IS SUPPORTED BY 200
YEARS AND IT IS NEEDED
TO PREVENT THE PRESIDENT FROM
HIDING THE EVIDENCE AND THAT IS
WHY THE SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS
REQUESTED ARE SO IMPORTANT FOR
THIS CASE. IT IS FAITHFUL TO THE
CONSTITUTION'S PROVISION THAT
THE SENATE WOULD HAVE THE SOLE
POWER. THE FINAL POINT I WILL
MAKE TODAY CONCERNS URGENCY. THE
SENATE SHOULD ACT ON THIS
SUBPOENA NOW AT THE OUTSET OF
THE TRIAL. IN 14 OF THE SENATE'S
15 IMPEACHABLE TRIALS, FRESH
HOLD
EVIDENTIARY MATTERS INCLUDING
THE TIMING AND NATURE AND SCOPE
OF WHAT THIS TESTIMONY AND THE
GATHERING OF ALL REBEL AND
DOCUMENTS WERE ADDRESSED AT THE
OUTSET OF THE TRIAL. THERE ARE
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS AS TO
WHY THE SUBPOENA NEEDS TO BE
NOW. RESOLVING WHETHER THE
SUBPOENA WOULD LET US
IMMEDIATELY ENGAGE WITH THE
WHITE HOUSE TO RESOLVE
LEGITIMATE ISSUES IF ANY EXIST
AND ENSURE YOU GET DOCUMENTS AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE SO THAT THEY
CAN BE PRESENTED IN ADVANCE OF
WITNESS TESTIMONY. WAITING TO
RESOLVE THE THRESHOLD MATTERS
UNTIL AFTER THE PARTIES HAVE
PRESENTED THEIR CASE WOULD
UNDERCUT THE PROCESS OF A
GENUINE CREDIBLE TRIAL. THUS,
COMMON SENSE AND TRADITION AND
FAIRNESS ALL COMPEL THAT THE
AMENDMENT SHOULD BE ADOPTED AND
IT SHOULD BE ADOPTED NOW.
MEMBERS OF THE SENATE FOR ALL
THE REASONS I SAY TODAY, I WANT
YOU TO SUPPORT THE AMENDMENT TO
ISSUE A SUBPOENA FOR WHITE HOUSE
STOCK MINTS. DOCUMENTS THAT ARE
DIRECTLY RELEVANT TO EVALUATE
THE PRESIDENT SKIING. THE HOUSE
DID IT'S JOB WITH OBSTRUCTION
AND CATEGORICAL COMMITMENT TO
HIDE THE EVIDENCE, WE STILL
GATHER DIRECT EVIDENCE OF
MISCONDUCT AND DETERMINED THAT
HIS CONDUCT REQUIRED
IMPEACHMENT.
THE PRESIDENT COMPLAINS ABOUT
DUE PROCESS WITH HOUSE
INVESTIGATIONS BUT HE WAS NOT
ONLY PERMITTED TO PURCHASE A
PAPER REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE.
YET, HE REFUSED TO DO SO. HE
REFUSED TO PROVIDE WITNESSES AND
DOCUMENTS THAT WOULD TELL HIS
SIDE OF THE STORY SO NOW IT IS
UP TO YOU. WITH THE BACKING OF A
SUBPOENA AUTHORIZED BY THE CHIEF
JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES,
YOU CAN END PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
OBSTRUCTION. WITH THE SENATE
FAILS TO TAKE THE STEP, THEY
WON'T EVEN ASK FOR THE EVIDENCE.
THIS TRIAL AND YOUR VERDICT WILL
BE QUESTIONED. CONGRESS AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE THE FULL
TRUTH. THERE IS NO POSSIBLE
REASON WHY ANYONE WOULDN'T WANT
TO HEAR ALL OF THE AVAILABLE
EVIDENCE ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S
CONDUCT. IT IS UP TO THIS BODY
TO MAKE SURE THAT HAPPENS AND UP
TO YOU TO DECIDE WHETHER THE
SENATE WILL AFFIRM ITS SOLE
POWER AND CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY.
WHETHER AND WHEN IT WILL GET THE
EVIDENCE THAT IT NEEDS TO RENDER
A FAIR VERDICT. DON'T SURRENDER
TO THE STORE AND WALL. IT WILL
ALLOW THE PRESIDENT TO BE ABOVE
THE LAW
AND A FAIR TRIAL IS ESSENTIAL IN
EVERY WAY. IMPORTANT FOR THE
PRESIDENT WHO HOPES TO BE
EXONERATED AND NOT MERELY
ACQUITTED BY A TRIAL SEEN AS
UNFAIR. IT IS IMPORTANT FOR THE
SENATE WHOSE VITAL ROLE IS TO
CONTINUE TO PROTECT AND DEFEND
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES WHICH IS PRESERVING OUR
AMERICAN LIBERTY FOR CENTURIES.
FINALLY, IMPORTANT FOR THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WILL TO EXPECT A
QUEST FOR TRUTH AND FAIRNESS AND
JUSTICE. HISTORY IS WATCHING IN
THE HOUSE MANAGERS URGE THAT YOU
SUPPORT THE MMA. I RESERVE THE
BALANCE OF MY TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> MR. PHILBIN?
>> THANK YOU , MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
AND MAJORITY LEADER McCONNELL
AND DEMOCRAT LEADER CHUCK
SCHUMER AND SENATORS . IT IS
REMARKABLE THAT AFTER TAKING THE
ACTION OF THE BREATHTAKING
GRAVITY OF VOTING TO BE THE DULY
ELECTED PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES AND AFTER SAYING FOR
WEEKS THAT THEY HAD OVERWHELMING
EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT THEIR CASE,
THE FIRST THING THAT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS HAVE DONE UPON ARRIVING
FINALLY IN THIS CHAMBER AFTER
WAITING FOR 33 DAYS IS TO SAY
ACTUALLY WINNING MORE EVIDENCE.
WE ARE NOT READY TO PRESENT OUR
CASE. WE NEED TO HAVE SUBPOENAS
AND DO MORE DISCOVERY BECAUSE WE
DON'T HAVE THE EVIDENCE WE NEED
TO SUPPORT OUR CASE. THIS IS
STUNNING. IT IS A STUNNING
ADMISSION OF THE INACCURATE AND
BROKEN PROCESS THAT THE HOUSE
DEMOCRATS RAN IN THIS
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY THAT FAILED
TO COMPILE A RECORD TO SUPPORT
THE CHARGES AND IT IS STUNNING
THAT THEY DON'T HAVE THE
EVIDENCE THEY NEED TO PRESENT
THEIR CASE AND THAT THEY DON'T
REALLY HAVE A CASE. IF A
LITIGANT SHOWED UP IN ANY COURT
IN THIS COUNTRY ON THE DAY OF
TRIAL AND SAID TO THE JUDGE
ACTUALLY, WE ARE NOT READY TO
GO. WE NEED MORE DISCOVERY. WE
NEED TO DO MORE SUBPOENAS AND
MORE WORK, THEY WOULD BE THROWN
OUT OF COURT AND THE LAWYERS
WOULD PROBABLY BE SANCTIONED.
THIS IS NOT THE SORT OF
PROCEEDING THAT THIS BODY SHOULD
CONDONE. WE JUST HEARD THAT THIS
IS SO IMPORTANT AND LET'S
CONSIDER WHAT IS REALLY AT ISSUE
IN THE RESOLUTION HERE AND THE
AMENDMENT. IT IS A MATTER OF
TIMING AND WHEN THIS BODY WILL
CONSIDER WHETHER THERE SHOULD BE
WITNESSES FOR SUBPOENAS FOR
DOCUMENTS. WHY IS IT THAT THE
HOUSE MANAGERS ARE SO AFRAID TO
HAVE TO PRESENT THEIR CASE.
REMEMBER, THEY HAVE HAD WEEKS
OF A PROCESS THAT THEY ENTIRELY
CONTROLLED. THEY HAD 17
WITNESSES THAT TESTIFIED FIRST
IN SECRET AND THEN IN PUBLIC AND
THEY HAVE COMPILED A RECORD WITH
THOUSANDS OF PAGES OF REPORTS
AND THEY ARE APPARENTLY AFRAID
TO JUST MAKE A PRESENTATION
BASED ON THE RECORD THAT THEY
COMPILED AND THEN HAVE YOU
DECIDE WHETHER THERE IS ANYTHING
THERE AND ANYTHING WORTH TRYING
TO TALK TO MORE WITNESSES ABOUT.
WHY IS IT THAT THEY CAN'T WAIT A
FEW DAYS
TO MAKE THEIR PRESENTATION ON
EVERYTHING THEY HAVE BEEN
PREPARING FOR WEEKS AND THEN
HAVE THAT ISSUE CONSIDERED?
BECAUSE THEY DON'T THINK THERE
IS ANYTHING THERE AND THEY WANT
TO RAM THIS THROUGH NOW. THEY
WANT TO RAM THIS THROUGH NOW AND
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT THEY
THEMSELVES FAILED TO DO. I WANT
TO UNPACK A COUPLE OF THE
ASPECTS OF WHAT THEY ARE ASKING
THIS BODY TO DO. PART OF IT
RELATES TO THE BROKEN PROCESS IN
THE HOUSE AND HOW THAT PROCESS
WAS INADEQUATE AND INVALID AND
COMPILED AN INADEQUATE RECORD
AND PART OF IT HAS TO DO WITH
WHAT ACCEPTING THE REQUEST TO
HAVE THIS BODY DO THEIR JOB FOR
THEM WOULD DO TO THIS
INSTITUTION GOING FORWARD AND
HOW IT WOULD ALTER FOREVER THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE HOUSE
AND SENATE IN IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS. FIRST, THE PROCESS
IN THE HOUSE, WHAT THE HOUSE
MANAGER IS ASKING THIS BODY TO
DO NOW IS REALLY TO DO THEIR JOB
FOR THEM. THEY DIDN'T TAKE THE
MEASURES TO PURSUE THE DOCUMENTS
IN THE HOUSE PROCEEDINGS AND
THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER OF
STATEMENTS MADE ABOUT TRYING TO
GET THE DOCUMENTS AND NO
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE OR THINGS
LIKE THAT BUT WITH THE SUBPOENA
TO THE WHITE HOUSE, THE WHITE
HOUSE EXPLAINED THAT WE WERE
TOLD A FEW MINUTES AGO THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE PROVIDED NO RESPONSE
OR RATIONALE. ON OCTOBER 18, THE
WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL
PAT CIPOLLONE EXPLAIN WHY THE
SUBPOENA WAS INVALID. IT WAS
INVALID BECAUSE IT WAS ISSUED
WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION. WE HAVE
HEARD A LOT TODAY ABOUT HOW THE
CONSTITUTION HAS SIGNED THE SOLE
POWER OF IMPEACHMENT TO THE
HOUSE. THAT IS WHAT ARTICLE ONE
SECTION 2 SAYS AND IT DESIGNS
THE SOLE POWER OF IMPEACHMENT TO
THE HOUSE. NOT TO ANY MEMBER OF
THE HOUSE. NO COMMITTEE OF THE
HOUSE CAN EXERCISE THAT
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SUBPOENAS
UNTIL IT HAS BEEN DELEGATED BY
THE HOUSE. THERE WAS NO VOTE
FROM THE HOUSE BUT INSTEAD
SPEAKER PELOSI HELD A PRESS
CONFERENCE AND REPORTED BY
HOLDING A PRESS CONFERENCE ON
SEPTEMBER 24 TO DELEGATE THE
AUTHORITY OF THE HOUSE TO
MANAGER SCHIFF AND SEVERAL OTHER
COMMITTEES AND HAVE THEM ISSUE
SUBPOENAS.  ALL OF THOSE WERE
INVALID AND THAT WAS EXPLAINED
TO THE HOUSE AND TO MANAGER
SCHIFF OF THE TIME ON THAT
OCTOBER
LETTER. TO THE HOUSE TAKE ANY
STEPS TO REMEDY THAT OR TRY TO
DISPUTE THAT OR GO TO COURT? DID
THEY DO ANYTHING TO RESOLVE THAT
PROBLEM? NO. AS WE KNOW, ALL
THAT THEY WANTED TO DO WAS ISSUE
A SUBPOENA AND MOVE ON.
THEY JUST WANTED TO GET THROUGH
THE IMPEACHMENT PROCESS AS QUICK
AS POSSIBLE AND GET IT DONE
BEFORE CHRISTMAS. THAT WAS THE
GOAL.
SO, THOSE SUBPOENAS WERE
UNAUTHORIZED. WHAT ABOUT THE
OTHER THINGS THAT THEY BROUGHT
UP WITH THE WITNESSES? WITNESSES
THAT WERE DIRECTED NOT TO
TESTIFY. PART ON THIS, WE HEARD
MANAGER SCHIFF SAY SEVERAL TIMES
AT THE WHITE HOUSE NEVER
ASSERTED EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE.
LET ME BE CLEAR ON THAT, THAT IS
A LAWYERS TRICK BECAUSE IT IS
TECHNICALLY TRUE THAT THE WHITE
HOUSE DID NOT ASSERT EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE AND THERE IS A
PARTICULAR SITUATION IN WHICH
YOU DO THAT IN A PARTICULAR WAY
THAT YOU DO THAT. THERE IS
ANOTHER DOCTRINE OF IMMUNITY OF
SENIOR ADVISORS TO THE PRESIDENT
THAT IS BASED ON THE SAME
PRINCIPLES AS EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE AND THAT HAS BEEN
ASSERTED BY BOTH POLITICAL
PARTIES SINCE THE 1970S AT
LEAST.
THIS IS WHAT ONE ATTORNEY
GENERAL EXPLAINED ABOUT THAT.
"THE IMMUNITY SUCH ADVISORS
ENJOY FROM COMPULSION BY
CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE IS
ABSOLUTE AND MAY NOT BE
OVERBORNE BY COMPETING
CONGRESSIONAL INTEREST." THAT
WAS JANET RENO IN THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION EXPANDING THE
SENIOR ADVISORS ARE IMMUNE FROM
CONGRESSIONAL COMPULSION AND
THAT DOCTRINE AND IMMUNITY IS
ROOTED IN THE SAME PRINCIPLES OF
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE AND ASSERTED
BY ALL PRESIDENTS SINCE THE
1970S AND THAT WAS THE BASIS ON
WHICH A NUMBER OF ADVISORS WHOSE
PICTURES THEY PUT UP WERE
DIRECTED NOT TO TESTIFY. DID
THEY TRY TO CHALLENGE THAT IN
COURT? DID THEY GO TO COURT ON
THAT ONE AND TRY TO GO THROUGH
THE MANDATED ACCOMMODATIONS
PROCESS TO SEE IF THERE WAS A
WAY TO COME UP WITH SOME ASPECT
OR TESTIMONY? NO, NONE OF THAT.
THEY JUST WANTED TO FORGE AHEAD
AND RUSH TO THE PROCESS AND NOT
HAVE THE EVIDENCE AND THEN USE
THAT AS ANOTHER CHARGE IN THE
CHARGING SHEET FOR THE
IMPEACHMENT CALLING OBSTRUCTION
OF CONGRESS. WHAT THAT IS IS
PROFESSOR TRULY EXPANDING THAT
WHEN THERE IS A CONFLICT BETWEEN
THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH AND THE
HOUSE AND SEEKING INFORMATION
AND THE PRESIDENT IS ASSERTING
CONSTITUTIONALLY BASED
PRIVILEGES, THAT IS PART OF THE
OPERATION OF SEPARATION OF
POWERS AND THE CONSTITUTIONAL
DUTY TO DEFEND THE PREROGATIVES
OF THE OFFICE FOR THE FUTURE
OCCUPANTS OF THAT OFFICE. IT IS
NOT SOMETHING THAT CAN BE
CHARGED AS AN IMPEACHABLE
DEFENSE AS DEMOCRATS HAVE TRIED
TO SAY. TO DO THAT IS AN ABUSE
OF POWER. THAT IS WILL PROFESSOR
TRULY EXPLAINED. IS THE HOUSE
DEMOCRATS ABUSE OF POWER.
WE JUST HEARD THE MANAGER REFER
TO EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE AS A
DISTRACTION. SHE WAS ASSERTING
THAT THESE ISSUES ARE JUST A
DISTRACTION BUT THIS IS WHAT THE
SUPREME COURT HAS SAID ABOUT
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE. THE
PROTECTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE ARE FUNDAMENTAL TO THE
OPERATIONS OF GOVERNMENT AND
ROOTED IN THE SEPARATION OF
POWERS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION.
THEY ARE ROOTED IN THE
SEPARATION OF POWERS. THAT IS
WHY IT IS THE PRESIDENT'S DUTY
TO DEFEND EXECUTIVE BRANCH
CONFIDENTIALITY AND THAT IS WHAT
THE PRESIDENT WAS DOING HERE.
NOW,
THE PROCESS THAT THEY PURSUED IN
THE HOUSE ABANDONED ANY EFFORT
BEYOND ISSUING THE FIRST
SUBPOENA THAT WAS INVALID TO
WORK OUT AN ACCOMMODATION WITH
THE WHITE HOUSE AND INSTEAD
TRIED TO RUSH AHEAD TO HAVE THE
IMPEACHMENT DONE BY CHRISTMAS.
WHAT DOES THAT LEAD TO NOW? THEY
ARE COMING TO THIS BODY AFTER A
PROCESS THAT WAS HALF-BAKED BUT
DID NOT COMPILE A RECORD
SUFFICIENT AND ASKING THIS BODY
TO DO THEIR JOB FOR THEM.
McCONNELL POINTED OUT IN SOME
COMMENTS EARLIER TODAY TO ALLOW
THAT TO ACCEPT THE IDEA
THAT THE HOUSE CAN BRING IN
IMPEACHMENT HERE THAT IS NOT
ADEQUATELY SUPPORTED AND HAS NOT
BEEN INVESTIGATED OR HAS A
RECORD TO SUPPORT IT AND TO TURN
THIS BODY INTO THE INVESTIGATORY
BODY WOULD ALTER THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE HOUSE
AND THE SENATE IN IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS. IT IS NOT THE ROLE
OF THE SENATE TO HAVE TO DO THE
HOUSES JOB FOR THEM. IS NOT THE
ROLE OF THE SENATE TO BE DOING
AN INVESTIGATION AND TO BE DOING
DISCOVERY IN A MATTER LIKE THE
IMPEACHMENT OR THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES. IF THE HOUSE
HAS NOT DONE THE INVESTIGATION
AND CANNOT SUPPORT ITS CASE, NOT
THE TIME WANTED HERE TO START
DOING ALL THAT WORK, THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT IS THE HOUSES
ROLE.
SO, THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS
IMPORTANT FOR THE INSTITUTION I
BELIEVE NOT TO ALLOW THE HOUSE
TO TURN IT INTO A SITUATION
WHERE THIS BODY WOULD HAVE TO BE
DOING THE HOUSES WORK FOR IT. IF
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT
THE CASE AND IF THEY HAVEN'T
DONE THEIR INVESTIGATION THEN
THEY WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SUPPORT
THEIR CASE. AGAIN, WHAT IS AT
ISSUE HERE AND I THINK IT IS
IMPORTANT TO RECALL ON THE ISSUE
OF THIS AMENDMENT NOT WHETHER
THE SENATE OR THIS BODY WILL BE
CONSIDERING WHETHER THERE SHOULD
BE WITNESSES OR NOT BUT WHEN IT
SHOULD BE CONSIDERED. THERE IS
NO REASON NOT TO TAKE THE
APPROACH THAT WAS DONE IN THE
CLINTON IMPEACHMENT. 100
SENATORS AGREED THAT IT MADE
SENSE TO HEAR FROM BOTH SIDES.
BEFORE MAKING A DETERMINATION ON
THAT. TO HEAR FROM BOTH SIDES TO
SEE WHAT SORT OF CASE THE HOUSE
COULD PRESENT AND THE PRESIDENTS
DEFENSE.
THAT MAKE SENSE. IN EVERY TRIAL
SYSTEM THERE IS A MECHANISM FOR
DETERMINING WHETHER THE PARTIES
HAVE PRESENTED A TRIABLE ISSUE
AND WHETHER THERE IS SOMETHING
THERE THAT REQUIRES FURTHER
PROCEEDINGS.
THIS BODY SHOULD TAKE THAT
COMMON SENSE APPROACH AND HEAR
WHAT IT IS THAT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS HAVE TO SAY. WHY ARE
THEY AFRAID TO PRESENT THEIR
CASE? THEY HAD WEEKS IN A
PROCESS THAT THEY CONTROL TO
COMPILE YOUR THEIR RECORD AND
SHOULD THEY BE ABLE TO MAKE THAT
PRESENTATION NOW. THE ONE POINT
I WILL CLOSE ON. WE HEARD THEM
SAY SEVERAL TIMES THAT WE HAVE
TO HAVE A FAIR PROCESS AND I WAS
STRUCK BY IT AND IT ONE POINT HE
SAID IF YOU ALLOW ONLY ONE SIDE
TO PRESENT EVIDENCE, THE OUTCOME
WILL BE PREDETERMINED. THAT IS
EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED IN THE
HOUSE. LET'S RECALL THAT THE
PROCESS THEY HAD IN THE HOUSE
WAS ONE-SIDED. A LOT THE
PRESIDENT AND HIS LAWYERS OUT.
THERE WAS NO DUE PROCESS AND
THEY STARTED WITH SECRET
HEARINGS IN THE BASEMENT. THE
PRESIDENT COULD NOT BE PRESENT
BY HIS COUNSEL AND COULD NOT
PRESENT EVIDENCE OR
CROSS-EXAMINE WITNESSES AND THEN
THERE WAS A SECOND ROUND WHERE
AGAIN THEY LOCKED THE PRESIDENT
OUT AND WE HAVE HEARD THEY JUST
SAID THE PRESIDENT HAD AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PARTICIPATE AND
IN THE THIRD ROUND OF HEARINGS
THAT THEY HELD BEFORE THE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE AFTER ONE
HEARING ON DECEMBER 4, SPEAKER
PELOSI
ON THE MORNING OF DECEMBER 5
WENT OUT AND ANNOUNCED THE
CONCLUSION OF THE PROCEEDINGS.
SHE ANNOUNCED THAT SHE WAS
DIRECTING CHAIRMAN ALLARD TO
DRAFT ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT
AND THAT WAS BEFORE THE DAY THAT
THEY HAD SET
TO EVEN TELL THEM WHAT RIGHTS HE
WANTED TO HAVE AND TO EXERCISE
IN THEIR PROCEEDINGS. IT WAS ALL
ALREADY PREDETERMINED. THE
OUTCOME HAD BEEN PREDETERMINED
AND THE DISHER COMMITTEE HAD
DECIDED IT WOULD NOT HAVE ANY
FACT HEARINGS. THERE WAS NO
PROCESS AND HE WAS NEVER ALLOWED
TO PARTICIPATE. WHEN THE
CHAIRMAN SCHIFF SAYS IF YOU ONLY
ALLOW ONE SIDE TO PRESENT
EVIDENCE , THAT IS WHAT THEY DID
IN THE HOUSE. THEY HAD A
PREDETERMINED OUTCOME AND IT WAS
ALL ONE-SIDED SO FOR HIM TO
LECTURE
THIS BODY NOW ON WHAT A FAIR
PROCESS WOULD BE, A FAIR PROCESS
WOULD BE WHEN YOU COME TO THE
DAY OF TRIAL AND YOU ARE READY
TO START THE TRIAL AND PRESENT
YOUR CASE. THE PRESIDENT IS
READY TO PROCEED AND THE HOUSE
MANAGER SHOULD BE READY TO
PROCEED AND THIS AMENDMENT
SHOULD BE REJECTED. THANK YOU.
>> THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE EIGHT
MINUTES REMAINING .
>> THE HOUSE IS CERTAINLY NOT
ASKING THE SENATE  TO DO THE
HOUSES JOB. WE ARE ASKING THE
SENATE TO DO ITS JOB. TO HOLD A
TRIAL. HAVE YOU EVER HEARD OF A
TRIAL THAT DOESN'T HAVE EVIDENCE
OR WITNESSES? THAT IS WHAT THIS
AMENDMENT IS ALL ABOUT. JUST A
MOMENT ABOUT THE SUBPOENAS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP REFUSED TO
PROVIDE ANY INFORMATION TO THE
HOUSE AND ORDERED
ALL OF HIS PEOPLE TO STONEWALL
US. IT HAS BEEN SUGGESTED THAT
WE SHOULD SPEND TWO OR THREE
YEARS LITIGATING THAT QUESTION.
IT WAS A YOUNG LAW STUDENT
WORKING ON THE NEXT IN
IMPEACHMENT MANY YEARS AGO AND I
REMEMBER THE DAY THAT THE
SUPREME COURT ISSUED THE
UNANIMOUS DECISION THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAD TO RELEASE
THE TAPE. I THINK U. S. VERSUS
DIXON STILL GOVERNS THE SENATE.
THEY SHOULD NOT BE ABLE TO
LITIGATE THEM BACK TO THE
SUPREME COURT AND DOWN AGAIN FOR
IT TO BE GOOD LAW. IT IS GOOD
LAW. THE PRESIDENT HAS NOT
COMPLIED WITH THOSE REQUIREMENTS
TO THE DETRIMENT OF THE TRUTH.
THIS ISN'T ABOUT HELPING THE
HOUSE. THIS ISN'T ABOUT HELPING
THE SENATE. THIS IS ABOUT
GETTING TO THE TRUTH AND MAKING
SURE THAT IMPARTIAL JUSTICE IS
DONE AND THAT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE ARE SATISFIED THAT A FAIR
TRIAL HAS BEEN HELD. I WOULD
YIELD NOW TO MY COLLEAGUE, MR.
SCHIFF.
>> THEY SAY THE HOUSE IS NOT
READY TO PRESENT THIS CASE AND
OF COURSE THAT IS NOT SOMETHING
YOU HEARD FROM ANY OF THE
MANAGERS. WE ARE READY. THE
HOUSE CALLS JOHN BOLTON. THE
HOUSE CALLS
NICK MULVANEY. LET'S GET THIS
TRIAL STARTED, SHALL WE? WE ARE
READY TO PRESENT OUR CASE AND
CALL EYEWITNESSES. THE QUESTION
IS, WILL YOU LET US? THAT IS THE
QUESTION BEFORE US. THEY SAY IF
I SHOWED UP IN COURT AND SAID I
WAS READY, THE JUDGE WITH THE
ONLY OUT-OF-COURT AND OF COURSE
WE ARE SAYING WE ARE READY BUT
YOU KNOW WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF
MR. FOREMAN WENT TO A COURT AND
THAT IS THAT I MADE A DEAL WITH
THE DEFENDANT. I WILL NOT LET
THE PROSECUTOR CALL ANY
WITNESSES OR LET THEM PRESENT
ANY DOCUMENTS. DO YOU KNOW WHO
GETS THROWN OUT OF THE COURT?
THE JUDGE. THE JUDGE WOULD BE
TAKEN OUT IN HANDCUFFS. LET'S
STEP OUT OF THIS BODY AND
IMAGINE WHAT A REAL TRIAL WOULD
LOOK LIKE. IT WOULD BEGIN
WITH THE GOVERNMENT RECEIVING
DOCUMENTS AND BEING ABLE TO
INTRODUCE DOCUMENTS AND CALL
WITNESSES. THIS TRIAL SHOULD BE
NO DIFFERENT. MR. PATRICK
PHILBIN MAKES REFERENCE TO THE
LETTER WHICH WAS AN EIGHT PAGE
LETTER ON OCTOBER 8 SAYING WE
WILL NOT DO ANYTHING YOU ASK.
PART LAW BUT MOSTLY DIATRIBE.
YOU SHOULD READ IT. IT IS A
LETTER THAT SAYS WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID ON THE TV SCREEN
WHICH IS WE WILL FIGHT ALL
SUBPOENAS. THE DOCTRINE OF
ABSOLUTE IMMUNITY THAT COUNSEL
REFERS TO HAS BEEN A VOTE AND
REJECTED BY THE COURT INCLUDING
IN THE MOST RECENT DECISION WITH
THE PRESIDENT'S FORMER WHITE
HOUSE COUNSEL WHERE THE COURT
SAID THAT WOULD MAKE HIM A KING.
HE IS NO KING.
THIS TRIAL DETERMINES THAT HE
SHALL NOT BECOME A KING
ACCOUNTABLE AND ANSWERABLE TO NO
ONE. ONCE MORE, THIS IDEA OF
ABSOLUTE IMMUNITY AND THE FEVER
DREAM HAS NO APPLICATION TO
DOCUMENTS.
AGAIN, THIS AMENDMENT IS ON
DOCUMENTS AND THERE IS NO
ABSOLUTE IMMUNITY FROM PROVIDING
DOCUMENTS. AS THE REPRESENTATIVE
ILLUSTRATED, WHEN THIS CASE HAS
GONE TO THE SUPREME COURT IN THE
NIXON CASE, THE COURT HELD THAT
THE INTEREST IN CONFIDENTIALITY
AND IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS MUST
GIVE WAY TO THE INTEREST OF THE
TRUTH AND THE SENATE AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. YOU CANNOT
INVOKE PRIVILEGE TO PROTECT
WRONGDOING. YOU CANNOT INVOKE
PRIVILEGE TO PROTECT EVIDENCE OF
A CONSTITUTIONAL CRIME LIKE WE
HAVE HERE.
FINALLY, WITH RESPECT TO
THE SECRET HEARINGS THAT COUNSEL
KEEPS REFERRING TO, THOSE SECRET
DEPOSITIONS IN THE HOUSE WERE SO
SECRET THAT ONLY 100 MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS WERE ABLE TO BE THERE
TO PARTICIPATE. THAT IS HOW
SECRET THE CHAMBER WAS. IMAGINE
THAT IN A GRAND JURY PROCEEDING
IN THE CLINTON INVESTIGATION OR
IN THE NIXON INVESTIGATION,
IMAGINE INVITING 50 OR 100
MEMBERS TO SIT IN ON THOSE.
IMAGINE AS THE PRESIDENT WOULD
LIKE, HIM INSISTING ON HAVING
HIS LAWYER AND THE GRAND JURY
BECAUSE IT WAS A CASE
INVESTIGATED AGAINST HIM. WE
HAVE NO GRAND JURY. WHY IS THAT?
WHY WAS THERE NO SPECIAL
PROSECUTOR? THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT SAID THEY WILL NOT
LOOK INTO THIS. BILL BARS
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAID THERE IS
NOTHING TO SEE HERE. IF IT WERE
UP TO THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT,
YOU WOULD NOT KNOW ANYTHING
ABOUT THIS. THAT IS WHY THERE
WAS NO GRAND JURY AND WHY WE IN
THE HOUSE HAD TO DO
INVESTIGATIVE WORK OURSELVES AND
JUST LIKE IN THE NIXON CASE AND
THE CLINTON CASE, WE USED
DEPOSITIONS AND YOU KNOW WHAT
RULES WE USED? THE TERRIBLY
UNFAIR DEPOSITION RULES? THEY
WERE WRITTEN BY THE REPUBLICANS
AND WE USED THE SAME RULES THAT
THE GOP HOUSE USED. THAT IS HOW
TERRIBLY UNFAIR THEY WERE. THEY
USED OUR RULES. HOW DARE THEY?
WHY? BECAUSE WE DIDN'T WANT ONE
WITNESS TO HEAR WHAT ANOTHER
WITNESS WAS SAYING SO THEY COULD
EITHER TAILOR THEIR STORIES OR
KNOW THEY HAD TO ADMIT SO MUCH.
IT IS HOWEVER CREDIBLE
INVESTIGATION WORKS.
THE COUNCIL CAN REPEAT ALL THEY
LIKE THAT THE PRESIDENT DIDN'T
HAVE A CHANCE TO PARTICIPATE OR
HAVE COUNSEL
WITH THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
OVER TO OFFER EVIDENCE. THEY CAN
SAY AS MUCH AS THEY LIKE BUT IT
DOESN'T MAKE IT ANY MORE TRUE
WHEN THEY MAKE THE SAME FALSE
REPRESENTATION TIME AND TIME
AGAIN. IT JUST MAKES IT THAT
MUCH MORE DELIBERATE. THE PERSON
COULD'VE PRESENTED EVIDENCE IN
THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE BUT HE
CHOSE NOT TO. THERE IS A REASON
FOR THAT. THERE IS A REASON WHY
THE WITNESSES THEY TALKED ABOUT
AREN'T MATERIAL WITNESSES. THEY
DON'T GO TO THE QUESTION OF
WHETHER THE PRESIDENT WITHHELD
AID FOR THE CORRUPT PURPOSE BUT
THEY HAVE NO WITNESSES TO
ABSOLVE THE PRESIDENT ON THE
FACTS.
YOU SHOULD WANT TO SEE THESE
DOCUMENT'S.
YOU SHOULD WANT TO KNOW WHAT THE
PRIVATE EMAILS AND TEXT MESSAGES
HAVE TO SAY. IF YOU ARE GOING TO
MAKE A DECISION ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT'S GUILT OR INNOCENCE,
YOU WILL MAKE A DECISION ABOUT
WHETHER HE SHOULD BE REMOVED
FROM OFFICE AND YOU SHOULD WANT
TO SEE
WHAT THE DOCUMENTS SAY. IF YOU
DON'T CARE AND YOU HAVE MADE UP
YOUR MIND THAT FOR WHATEVER
REASON I'M NOT INTERESTED
AND I DON'T REALLY WANT THE
COUNTRY TO SEE THIS, THAT IS A
FULLY DIFFERENT MATTER BUT THAT
IS NOT WHAT IT REQUIRES. THAT IS
NOT WHAT THE OATH REQUIRES. IT
REQUIRES YOU TO DO IMPARTIAL
JUSTICE WHICH MEANS TO SEE THE
EVIDENCE. THAT IS ALL WE ARE
ASKING. DON'T BLIND YOURSELF TO
THE EVIDENCE. I YIELD BACK.
>> THE MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> I SEND A MOTION TO THE DESK
FOR AN AMENDMENT.
>> THE QUESTION IS ON THE
MOTION ON
THE TABLE. IS THERE A SUFFICIENT
SECOND? THERE IS AND THE CLERK
WILL CALL THE ROLE.
>> MR. ALEXANDER.
>> I.
>> MS. BALDWIN.
>> NO.
>> MR. BENNETT. MRS. BLACKBURN.
MR. BLUMENTHAL. MR. BLUNT.
>> I.
>> MR. BOOKER.
>> NO.
>> MR. BLUESMAN.
>> I.
>> MR. BRAUN .
>> MR. BROWN. MR. BERG.
MS. CANTWELL.
MR. CARDIN. MR. CARPER. MR.
CASEY. MR. CASSIDY.
MS. COLLINS. MR. .  MR. CORNYN.
MS.
CORTEZ MASTRO. MR. COTTON. MR.
CREAMER. MR. CRAPO. MR. CRUZ.
MR. DAINES. MR. DUCKWORTH. MR.
DURBIN. MR.
ENZY. MS. URNST.
MRS. FINSTEIN. MRS. FISHER.
>> I.
>> MS. GARDNER.
>> MR. GRAHAM . MR. GRASSLEY.
MS. HARRIS. MS. HASSAN.
MR. HULEY.
>> I.
>> MR. HOVEN.
MRS. HIDESMITH.
>> I.
>> MR. JOHNSON.
>> I.
>> MR. JONES.
>> NO.
>> MR. KANE.
>> MR. KENNEDY . MR. KING.
>> NO.
>>
MS. CLOVECHAR. MR. LANGFORD.
>> I.
>> MR. LEE.
>> MS. LESTER. MR. MANSION.
>> NO.
>> MR. MURKY. MR. McCONNELL.
MR. HOLLY. MR. MENDEZ. MR.
MERKLEY. MR. MORAN.
>> I.
>> MS. MURKOWSKI .
MR. MURPHY. MRS. MURPHY. MR.
PAUL.
>> I.
>> MR. PERDUE.
>> MR. PETERS.
>> NO.
>> MR.
PORTMAN.
>> NO.
>> MR. REED . MR. RESH. MR.
ROBERTS.
>> I.
>> MR. ROMNEY MS. ROSEN. MR.
RUBIO.
>> I.
>> MR. SANDERS.
MR. SHOTS. MR. SCHUMER. MR.
SCOTT OF FLORIDA. MR. SCOTT OF
SOUTH CAROLINA.
>> NO.
>>
MRS. SHAHEEN. MR. SHELBY. MS.
CINEMA. MS. SMITH. MISS
DABINO.
MR. SULLIVAN.
>> I.
>> MR. SPOON. MR. TILLIS.
>> MR. TOOMEY.
>> I.
>> MR. UDOL. MR. VAN HOLLEN.
MR. WARNER. MS. WARREN.
MR. WHITEHOUSE. MR. WICKER. MR.
WYDEN. MR. YOUNG.
>> ARE THERE ANY CENTERS IN THE
CHAMBER WISHING TO VOTE  OR
CHANGE HIS OR HER VOTE? IF NOT,
IT IS 53 YES AND
47 KNOW. THE AMENDMENT IS
TABLED.
>> THE DEMOCRATIC LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, I SENT A
MEMO TO THE DESK TO SUBPOENA
CERTAIN DOCUMENTS FOR THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND I ASK THAT IT BE
READ.
>> THE CLERK WILL READ THE
AMENDMENT .
>> THE SENATOR FROM NEW YORK ,
MR. CHUCK SCHUMER PROPOSES AN
AMENDMENT  NUMBER 1285. AT THE
APPROPRIATE PLACE OF THE
RESOLVING CLAUSE WITH THE
FOLLOWING SECTIONS THAT WAS
SENDING ANY OTHER PROVISION OF
THE RESOLUTION FOR RULES FIVE
AND SIX OF THE RULES AND
PROCEDURES AND PRACTICE IN THE
SENATE WHEN SITTING IN
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS AND THE CHIEF
JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES
THROUGH THE SECRETARY OF THE
SENATE SHALL ISSUE A SUBPOENA TO
THE SECRETARY OF SENATES
COMMANDING HIM FOR THE TIME
PERIOD OF JANUARY 1, 2019
TO THE PRESENT WITH ALL
DOCUMENTS AND COMMUNICATIONS AND
OTHER RECORDS WITHIN THE
POSSESSION AND CUSTODY OR
CONTROL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
STATE REFERRING OR RELATING TO
ALL MEETINGS AND CALLED THE TWIN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND THE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE INCLUDING
DOCUMENTS AND INDICATIONS AND
OTHER RECORDS RELATED TO THE
SCHEDULING OF PREP RATIONS AND A
FOLLOW-UP FROM THE APRIL 21 AND
JULY 25, 2019 TELEPHONE CALLS AS
WELL AS THE PRESIDENT SEPTEMBER
25, 2019 MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE IN NEW
YORK. C, THE POTENTIAL
SUSPENSION OF WITHHOLDING AND
DELAYING AND FREEZING OR
MISUSING MILITARY ASSISTANCE
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
UKRAINE SINCERITY INITIATIVE AND
FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TALK
INDICATIONS WITH THE WHITE HOUSE
AND THE DEPARTMENT OF THE
DEFENSE AND THE MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET AS WELL AS THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT'S KNOWLEDGE PRIOR TO
AUGUST 28, 2019 OF ANY ACTUAL OR
POTENTIAL SUSPENSION WITHHOLDING
DELAYING OR FREEZING THE UNITED
STATES FOR ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE
INCLUDING ALL MEETINGS AND CALLS
FOR OTHER ENGAGEMENTS WITH
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS REGARDING A
POTENTIAL OR ACTUAL SUSPENSION
HOLD OR DELAY IN THE UNITED
STATES ASSISTANCE. ALL DOCUMENTS
AND MEDICATIONS ANOTHER WRECK
CREATED OR RECEIVED BY SECRETARY
MIKE POMPEO AND
THE COUNSELOR FORMER SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE FOR UKRAINE
NEGOTIATIONS AMBASSADOR KURT
MOELLER AND THEN UNITED STATES
CHARGE AFFAIRS WILLIAM TAYLOR
AND AMBASSADOR TO THE EUROPEAN
UNION GORDON SONDLAND AND OTHER
OFFICIALS RELATING TO EFFORTS
OF SOLICITING REQUEST DEMAND TO
VERSE UKRAINE TO CONDUCT AN
INVESTIGATION AND 2, WITHHOLD A
WHITE HOUSE MEETING FOR
UKRAINE'S PRESIDENT OR 3, HOLD
AND RELEASE EIGHT UNDER THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE.
ANY MEETINGS OR PROPOSED
MEETINGS AT OR INVOLVING THE
WHITE HOUSE THAT RELATE TO
UKRAINE INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO PRESENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY'S INAUGURATION  IN
UKRAINE INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
DECISION NOT TO ATTEND AND TO AS
VICE PRESIDENT PARENTS TO LEAVE
THE DELEGATION AND DIRECTING HIM
NOT TO ATTEND AND THE SUBSEQUENT
DECISION ABOUT THE COMPOSITION
OF THE DELEGATION OF THE UNITED
STATES. THE MEETING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE ON OR AROUND 2019
INVOLVING AMONG OTHERS PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND THEN SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE FOR UKRAINE
NEGOTIATIONS AND INVESTOR KURT
VOLKER AND RICK PERRY AND THE
UNITED STATES AMBASSADOR TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION AS WELL AS ANY
PRIVATE MEETINGS OR
CONVERSATIONS WITH ANNUAL
VISUALS BEFORE AND AFTER OR
MEETINGS ON OR ABOUT THE 10th
INVOLVING UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS
AND ALEXANDER AND THE UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR JOHN
BOLTON AND SECRETARY PERRY AND
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND SOMNOLENT
TO INCLUDE A MEETING WITH THE
OFFICE AND A SUBSEQUENT MEETING
IN THE AWARD ROOM OR AT THE
WHITE HOUSE ON OR AROUND 2019
INVOLVING PRESIDENT TRUMP THE
SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE POMPEO
AND SECRETARY OF DEFENSE. FIVE,
A PLAN MEETING LATER CANCELED
IN POLAND ON OR AROUND CENTER
ONE OF 2019 BETWEEN PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY AND SUBSEQUENTLY
ATTENDED  BY VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE IN THE MEETING AT THE
WHITE HOUSE ON OR AROUND 2019 IN
SEPTEMBER INVOLVING PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
AND MR. MULVANEY CONCERNING THE
LIFTING OF THE HOLD ON SECURITY
ASSISTANCE FOR UKRAINE. E,
MEDICATIONS EXCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WHAT THAT OR TEXT
MESSAGES ON PRIVATE DEVICES
BETWEEN CURRENT OR FORMER STATE
DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS OR
EMPLOYEES INCLUDED BUT NOT
LIMITED TO MICHAEL POMPEO AND
AMBASSADOR'S HOMELAND AND TAYLOR
AND THE DEPUTY ASSISTANT AND THE
FOLLOWING.
INDIVIDUALS OR ENTITIES
ASSOCIATED WITH OR ACTING IN ANY
CAPACITY AS A REPRESENTATIVE
AGENT BEFORE AND AFTER THE
ELECTION.
ALL RECORDS IDENTIFIED BY
WITNESSES IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES THAT MEMORIALIZE
THE EVENTS OR CONCERNS AND ANY
CONCERNS INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ONE ON AUGUST 29,
2019 SENT BY AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
TO SECRETARY POMPEO AND IN
AUGUST 16, THE MEMORANDUM TO
FILE BY SECRETARY CAN'T AND THE
2019 RANDOM TO FILE WRITTEN BY
DEPUTY ASSISTANT AND ALL
MEETINGS AND CALLS INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO ALL REQUESTS FOR
RECORDS OF MEETINGS OR TELEPHONE
CALLS IN SCHEDULING ITEMS AND
ENTRIES WITH THE STATE
DEPARTMENT VISITOR RECORDS OR
EMAILS AND TEXT MESSAGES USING
PERSONAL OR WORK-RELATED DEVICES
BETWEEN OR AMONG ONE EMPLOYEE
AND INCLUDED BUT NOT LIMITED TO
POMPEO AND AMBASSADOR SOMNOLENT
AND GIULIANI
AND HER RECALL OF THE FORMER
UNITED STATES AMBASSADOR TO
UKRAINE, MARIE MARSHA FOR THE
UNITED STATES EMBASSY INCLUDING
A CREDIBLE THREAT REPORT AGAINST
HER WITH ANY PROTECTIVE SECURITY
MEASURES TAKEN IN RESPONSE AND
THE SERGEANT AT ARMS IS
AUTHORIZED TO UTILIZE THE
SERVICES OF THE DEPUTY SERGEANT
OR ANY OTHER EMPLOYEE IN SERVING
THE SUBPOENA AUTHORIZED.
>> MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> I ASKED FOR A BRIEF 10
MINUTE RECESS BEFORE THE PARTIES
ARE RECOGNIZED TO DEBATE THE
AMENDMENT AND AT THE END THE
DEBATE TIME, I WILL MOVE TO
TABLE THE AMENDMENT AS THE
TIMING OF THESE VOTES ARE
SPECIFIED IN THE UNDERLYING
RESOLUTION. I HAVE CONSENT THAT
WE HAVE A RECESS.
>> THE SENATE IS IN RECESS.
>> YOU ARE WATCHING LIVE
COVERAGE FROM THE WASHINGTON
POST . WE WILL BE JOINING THE
SENATE TRIAL WHEN THINGS GET
BACK INTO GEAR AND JUST A LITTLE
WHILE. LET'S JUST TALK ABOUT
WHERE WE ARE AT RIGHT NOW. A
SECOND AMENDMENT HAS BEEN
OFFERED FROM CENTER CHUCK
SCHUMER AND THE  TOP DEMOCRAT.
THIS IS FROM THE STATE
DEPARTMENT RELATED TO CALLS AND
MEETINGS BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP
AND THE LEADER OF UKRAINE. THIS
IS EXPECTED TO GO THE SAME ROUTE
AS THE FIRST AMENDMENT FROM THE
SENATE MINORITY LEADER AND
REPUBLICANS HAVE THE VOTES TO
SQUASH IT. WHAT WE SAW WAS THE
VOTE 53-47 TO TABLE THAT FIRST
ATTEMPT ENTERED INTO THIS TRIAL
PROCESS. LET'S GO BACK OVER SOME
OF THE HIGHLIGHTS OF WHAT WE
HAVE SEEN SO FAR TODAY. YOU CAN
LISTEN BACK TO SOME OF THAT TAPE
WE HAVE HEARD AND SOME OF THE
HIGHLIGHTS THAT HAVE RESONATED
AS WE WATCH THIS PROCESS UNFOLD
AND ONE SUBJECT THAT KEPT COMING
UP WAS THE HANDLING OF THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY IN HIS NAME
KEPT COMING UP BY THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE OF THE DEFENSE AND SCHIFF
WHO IS THE LEAD
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER TOOK TO THE
PODIUM TO DEFEND HIMSELF. LET'S
LISTEN.
>> WHEN YOU HEAR THEM ATTACKED
THE HOUSE MINIATURES, WHAT YOU
ARE REALLY HEARING IS WE DON'T
WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
PRESIDENTS GUILT. WHEN I WANT TO
TALK ABOUT THE McCONNELL
RESOLUTION AND HOW UNFAIR IT IS.
WE DON'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT HOW
BACKWARDS IT IS TO HAVE A TRIAL
AND THEN ASKED FOR WITNESSES. SO
WE WILL ATTACK THE HOUSE
MINIATURES BECAUSE MAYBE WE CAN
DISTRACT YOU FOR A MOMENT FROM
WHAT IS BEFORE YOU. MAYBE IF WE
ATTACK HOUSE MINIATURES YOU'LL
BE THINKING ABOUT THEM INSTEAD
OF THE GUILT OF THE PRESIDENT.
>> THAT IS
ADAM SCHIFF TALKING ABOUT THE
FACT THAT HE WAS THE SUBJECT OF
MOST OF THE REPUBLICAN DEFENSE
SO FAR TODAY. LET'S GO TO
CAPITOL HILL TO THOSE THAT HAVE
BEEN FOLLOWING THE PROCEEDINGS.
LET'S TALK THROUGH THE LATEST
AMENDMENT THAT HAS BEEN BROUGHT
UP. THIS DOESN'T HOLD MUCH OF A
CHANCE OF PASSAGE BUT WHY IS IT
SIGNIFICANT THAT HE HAS BROUGHT
UP THIS REQUEST FOR MORE
DOCUMENTS FROM THE STATE
DEPARTMENT?
>> THAT IS VERY IMPORTANT
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE DOCUMENTS
THAT INVESTIGATORS WANTED DID
COME FROM THE STATE DEPARTMENT
SO WHAT THEY ARE DOING RIGHT NOW
IS SAYING WE NEED THESE
DOCUMENTS AND ANY SORT OF
EVIDENCE THAT WILL COME LATER.
HE SAID IN THE LANGUAGE THAT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT IS KEY TO THE
ENTIRE TRIAL AND EVIDENCE AND
DOCUMENTS IN ANYTHING THAT CAN
HELP THEM MAKE THAT DECISION
WHETHER TO IMPEACH PRESIDENT
TRUMP OR NOT WOULD COME FROM
HAVING INFORMATION FROM THE
STATE DEPARTMENT AND AS
MENTIONED THE FIRST AMENDMENT
THAT HE BROUGHT UP EARLIER WHICH
WAS TO SUBPOENA DOCUMENTS FROM
THE WHITE HOUSE, THAT THEY GET
TABLED AND FAILED AND WE ARE
EXPERT IN THIS NEXT ONE AS WELL
TO THAT EARLY THIS MORNING,
SENATOR CHUCK SCHUMER DID TELL A
ROOM FULL OF REPORTERS  THAT HE
WOULD BRING A SERIES OF THESE
AMENDMENTS SO THESE ARE JUST TWO
SO FAR AND HE MAY COME WITH
MORE. THEY MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL
BUT AT LEAST IT
SHOWS THAT DEMOCRATS ARE PUSHING
TO GET EVIDENCE.
>> WHAT IS SENDING OUT TO YOU SO
FAR IN THE TONE OF THE DETAILS
THAT BOTH SIDES HAVE BEEN
BRINGING UP?
>> EVEN THE WHAT IS HAPPENING
RIGHT NOW IS THEY ARE
TECHNICALLY DEBATING THESE
AMENDMENTS  AND DEBATING THE
ORGANIZING RESOLUTION BUT WHAT
REALLY SEEMS TO BE HAPPENING IS
WE ARE GETTING A PREVIEW OF WHAT
BOTH SIDES ARGUMENTS WILL BE
WHEN THEY START THE OPENING
ARGUMENT PHASE AND SO FAR WE
HAVE HEARD FROM PAT, THE WHITE
HOUSE LEAD COUNSEL AND OTHERS ON
THAT TEAM SAY THEY ARE READY TO
GET THIS DONE. THEY SAY THE
HOUSE HAS TOLD ENOUGH AND THEY
ARE READY BECAUSE THEY SAID ALL
IT IS DOING
IS UNDOING THE 2016 ELECTION
IMPOSSIBLE INTERFERING IN THE
2020 ELECTION SO THOSE ARE
COMMON THEMES THAT WE READ OVER
THE WEEKEND WHEN THEY RELEASED
THE BRIEFING AND THEN ON THE
HOUSE MANAGER SIDE, IT'S ALMOST
LIKE WATCHING A CLASS. THEY ARE
GOING THERE WITH EVIDENCE OF
DIFFERENT WITNESSES TESTIMONIES
THAT HAVE OCCURRED
AND THEY KEEP REFRESHING OUR
MEMORY OF WHAT THEY BELIEVE IS
MISCONDUCT THAT WAS DONE BY THE
PRESIDENT. REALLY, IT IS LIKE
THE OPENING OPENING ARGUMENTS
THAT WE ARE SEEING RIGHT NOW AND
THAT IS WHAT HAS BEEN SENDING
OUT TO ME.
>> I LOVE IT AND THANK YOU SO
MUCH.  THANK YOU FOR PAYING
ATTENTION TO THIS WITH US.
TOM, JUST WEEKS AGO, IT FEELS
LIKE IT COULD'VE BEEN YEARS AGO
AT THIS POINT BECAUSE OF HOW
MUCH HAPPENED BUT A COUPLE WEEKS
AGO, YOU ARE REPORTING THE
QUESTIONS OF WHETHER JOHN BOLTON
MIGHT BE WILLING TO TESTIFY
BEFORE THE SENATE AND YOU ARE
REPORTING WITH THE TEAM THAT HE
SAID HE WOULD COME BEFORE THE
SENATE IF SUBPOENAED BUT WE ARE
NOW SEEING EFFORTS BEHIND THE
SCENE TO SORT OF MINIMIZE HOW
OPEN THAT MIGHT BE AND WHETHER
WE SEE HIM COME BEFORE THE
SENATE.
OUR CALLINGS ARE REPORTING THAT
THERE IS CONVERSATION ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT THAT COULD BE
DONE SO WHY IS BOLTON SO KEY TO
THIS?
>> IN A DRAMA THAT WE HAVE BEEN
WATCHING ALL DAY  THAT IN SOME
WAYS SEEMS VERY PREDICTABLE
GIVEN HOW ENTRENCHED BOTH
PARTIES ARE AND HOW SECURE THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER FEELS IN THE
OVERALL LOYALTY OF REPUBLICANS
BUT THE ONE WILDCARD AND THE ONE
THING THAT COULD UPSET
A PREDICTABLE OUTCOME HERE IS
JOHN BOLTON. WHY? JOHN BOLTON IS
A BROKEN VETERAN WAS STRONG
CONSERVATIVE AND FOREIGN POLICY
BONA FIDES AND TWO, HE SERVED AS
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR TO
DONALD TRUMP AND WE KNOW FROM
THE TESTIMONY OF OTHERS THAT A
HE WAS UNHAPPY WITH SOME OF THE
ADMINISTRATIONS OF FOREIGN
POLICY DECISIONS AND NOT ONLY
WITH REGARD TO UKRAINE WHERE HE
BLEW HIS STACK ABOUT RUDY
GIULIANI'S INVOLVEMENT CALLING
IT A DRUG DEAL BUT ALSO
VENEZUELA AND TURKEY. THREE
HOTSPOTS AROUND THE GLOBE RIGHT
NOW. THREE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
ARGUABLY. SO, JOHN BOLTON HAS
HINTED THAT HE HAS SIGNIFICANT
THINGS TO SAY ABOUT THAT
OPERATION AND UNLIKE THE PARADE
OF WITNESSES WITH THE TEAM
TALKING ABOUT THAT TODAY THAT
CAME BEFORE THE HOUSE AND SPOKE
ABOUT WHAT THEY KNEW OR HEARD
ABOUT THE PRESIDENT. JOHN BOLTON
HAD AT LEAST ONE AND MORE LIKELY
TWO THAT WE HAVE DOCUMENTED WITH
ONE-ON-ONE MEETINGS WITH DONALD
TRUMP TALKING ABOUT UKRAINE AND
THE POLICY. HE IS A FIRST-HAND
WITNESS TO THE PRESIDENT WITH
DECISION-MAKING AND COULD BE A
CRITICAL WITNESS THAT BECAUSE OF
HIS STANDING AND KNOWLEDGE OF
HIS ONE-ON-ONE EXPERIENCE COULD
BE A PERSUASIVE WITNESS AND ONE
THAT COULD MOVE SOME VOTES AND
EVEN CHANGE
PUBLIC OPINION AND OF THAT IS
CERTAIN BUT THAT IS THE REASON
THAT JOHN BOLTON IS A WILDCARD
AND WHOSE NAME KEEPS COMING UP
BECAUSE IF WE WERE TO TRY TO
PREDICT ONE FIGURE THAT MIGHT
INFLUENCE WHAT OTHERWISE SEEMS
TO BE A PRINTABLE COURSE OF
EVENTS,  THAT IS JOHN BOLTON.
>> IT MIGHT BE HARD FOR SOME OF
THE MODERATE REPUBLICANS TO SAY
I DON'T WANT TO HEAR FROM JOHN
BOLTON DEPENDING HOW THE
DEMOCRATS ARE ABLE TO LAY OUT
THEIR CASE AND FOCUS ON THE
FACTS AND WHAT OTHER WITNESSES
POINTED TO IN TERMS OF THE
CONVERSATIONS HE WAS INVOLVED
WITH AND THE THINGS THAT HE SAID
TO PEOPLE LIKE FIONA HILL AND IF
THEY KEEP HAMMERING THAT WITH
THE ACTIVE AUDIENCE OF THE
SENATE LISTEN TO THEM, IT MIGHT
BE HARDER FOR THE MODERATE TO
SAY WE DON'T HEAR FROM THEM.
>> EXACTLY WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT  JOHN BOLTON WILL SAY. I
THINK IT IS A LITTLE BIT OF A
GAMBLE TO SAY NO. ESPECIALLY
WHEN THERE IS THIS NEW PROSPECT
OF TESTIFYING BEHIND CLOSED
DOORS AND THAT MIGHT BE AN EXTRA
LAYER OF SECURITY AND ESPECIALLY
THOSE THAT ARE HAVING TO GO HOME
AND EXPLAIN TO CONSTITUENTS WHY
THEY SHOULD VOTE FOR THEM TO BE
IN THE BODY WHERE THERE ARE
QUITE A FEW REPUBLICANS AND
SEEING THAT EXAMPLE WHERE HE SHE
FOUND HERSELF IN THIS POSITION
OF BEING THE REPUBLICAN SWING
VOTE
ON MANY ISSUES BUT THIS MIGHT BE
THE TOUGHEST SPOT SHE HAS BEEN
PUT IN YET.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT THE PRESENCE
DEFENSE TEAM  AND HOW THEY ARE
DOING. WE GET A SENSE OF HOW
THEY PLAN TO DEFEND THE
PRESIDENT EVEN THOUGH THIS IS
ABOUT SETTING UP THE FRAMEWORK
FOR THE NEXT DAYS AND WEEKS. WE
ARE GETTING A SENSE OF WHO MIGHT
DO WHAT LIFTING.
>> SORT OF FOR THE FIRST TIME
GETTING A DIRECT SENSE OF
HEARING THESE PEOPLE THAT WE
HAVE SEEN
IN LETTER FORM AND HEARD ABOUT
THE DEFENSES THAT THEY ARE GIVEN
BUT WE ARE SEEING THEM GO BEFORE
THE NATION NOW AND EXPLAIN WHY
THEY THINK PRESIDENT TRUMP
SHOULD NOT BE CONVICTED AND THE
MEMBERS IN THE CENTER HEARING
WHY PARTY MEMBERS THINK THEY
SHOULD NOT BE CONVICTED AND THEY
ARE ALSO LIVING PRESIDENT TRUMP
WHO WAS ACROSS THE OCEAN IN
EUROPE RIGHT NOW SEE HOW THEY
WILL BACK FOR HIM AND YOU CAN
BET THAT HE WILL RENDER A
VERDICT ON THAT.
>> ONE THING THAT HAS STOOD OUT
IS  THE OPENING STATEMENTS BY
THE PRESENCE TEAM INCLUDING
THINGS THAT FRANKLY WEREN'T
TRUE. THE LEGAL TEAM STARTED
THEIR DEFENSE
WITH SOMETHING THAT WAS NOT
FACTUALLY CORRECT. LET'S TALK
ABOUT MATT TALK ABOUT THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY.
>> NEVER BEFORE IN THE HISTORY
OF OUR COUNTRY  HAS A PRESIDENT
BEEN CONFRONTED WITH THIS KIND
OF IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDING IN THE
HOUSE. IT WASN'T CONDUCTED BY
THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE AT MR.
NADLER WHEN HE APPLIED FOR A JOB
TOLD HIS COLLEAGUES WHEN THEY
TOOK OVER THE HOUSE THAT HE WAS
REALLY GOOD AT IMPEACHMENT. WHAT
HAPPENED WAS THE PROCEEDINGS
TOOK PLACE IN A BASEMENT OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THE PRESIDENT WAS FORBIDDEN FROM
ATTENDING. THE PRESIDENT WAS NOT
ALLOWED TO HAVE A LAWYER
PRESENT. AND EVERY OTHER
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDING, THE
PRESIDENT HAS BEEN GIVEN A
MINIMAL DUE PROCESS BUT NOTHING
HERE. NOT EVEN MR.
SCHIFF'S REPUBLICAN CALLINGS
WERE ALLOWED .
>> WHAT HE SAID WAS ACTUALLY
NOT TRUE. THIS GIFT IS A SENSE
OF COMPARTMENTALIZED INFORMATION
FACILITY THAT IS A SECURE ROOM
FOR INTELLIGENCE BUT LET'S
UNPACK WHAT THE PRESIDENT'S
LAWYERS SAID BECAUSE REPUBLICANS
ACTUALLY WERE ALLOWED IN THERE
SO GOING NOW TO ONE OF OUR
REPORTERS HAS BEEN FOLLOWING
THIS AND HE IS OUR NATIONAL
CORRESPONDENT JOINING ME BY
PHONE IN NEW YORK. SO, YOU HAVE
BEEN TRACKING EXACTLY WHAT THE
ATTORNEYS HAVE BEEN SAYING AND
REGISTERING SOME OF THE
FALSEHOODS
THAT WERE A BASIC PREMISES FOR
THEIR ARGUMENT.
>> JUST WHAT WE HAVE HEARD FOR
YEARS THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP LIKE
TO SEE A PARTICULAR STYLE WHEN
HE IS TUNING IN ON TELEVISION
AND HIS TWO ATTORNEYS THAT
STARTED OFF GAVE HIM EXACTLY
THAT. THEY WERE VERY FORCEFUL
AND VERY PRONE TO REITERATING
ARGUMENTS THAT HAVEN'T BEEN
BORNE OUT.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE ARGUMENT THAT
WE JUST HEARD ABOUT HOW THE
REPUBLICANS WERE EXCLUDED FROM
THE PROCESS, THERE ISN'T REALLY
A LOT OF TRUTH TO IT. IT IS
CERTAINLY THE CASE THAT NOT
EVERY MEMBER IS ALLOWED INTO
THESE HEARINGS BUT THERE WERE A
LOT OF REPUBLICANS THAT WERE AND
A LOT DID ATTEND THE HEARINGS
AND THEY TOOK UP ABOUT HALF THE
TIME OF THE QUESTIONS THAT WERE
COMING FROM REPUBLICANS. SO,
THERE ARE A LOT OF WAYS IN WHICH
THE REPRESENTATION WAS WRONG AND
I ALSO WANT TO SAY IT IS SORT OF
REMARKABLE TO TALK ABOUT THE
PAST HISTORY BECAUSE THIS HAS
NOT HAPPENED TWICE. IT'S NOT THE
SORT OF THING THAT IS A ROBUST
BODY OF WORK THAT WE CAN POINT
TO.
>> IS A GREAT POINT AND THEY
ALSO TALKED ABOUT STATEMENTS
THAT CHAIRMAN SCHIFF  MADE WHEN
THE PROCESS WAS OPENING UP AND
STARTING. SCHIFF TRIED TO
SUMMARIZE THIS CALL  AND
SCHIFF USE THE HYPERBOLE IN
DESCRIBING AND BASICALLY
DESCRIBED AS A CLASSIC  CRIME
ORGANIZED SHAKEDOWN AND HE
IMITATED THE CALL. WE HAVE HEARD
PAT SAY THIS WAS A COMPLETE
VACANT SOMETHING THAT NEVER
HAPPENED SO THAT SEEMS TO BE
STRETCHING POSSIBILITY.
>> YEAH, ESSENTIALLY WHAT
SCHIFF WAS DOING WAS  SHORTLY
AFTER THE JULY CALL AND SAYING
HERE IS THE GIST OF WHAT HAD
HAPPENED. IN ADDITION TO
MISREPRESENTING, THEY ALSO GOT
THE TIMING WRONG
BUT THIS AGAIN IS A FAVORITE
TALKING POINT OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP. HE HAS REPEATEDLY ARGUED
OFTEN SAYING THAT SCHIFF MADE
THIS REPRESENTATION  BUT TRUMP
HAS FREQUENTLY ARGUED THAT
SCHIFF WAS TRYING TO MISLEAD THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND MISREPRESENT
WHAT HAPPENED AND BASICALLY LIED
AND SCHIFF HIMSELF
DID SAY THIS IS NOT ACCURATE AND
I'M NOT TRYING TO CONVEY THIS
WORD FOR WORD BUT THE
PRESENTATION IS REALLY NOT
RESPECT.
>> STAY WITH US. WE WANT TO GET
A SENSE OF WHY THIS IS SO
SIGNIFICANT AND HOW THIS IS
STANDING OUT IN THE OPENING
MOMENT.
>> I THINK THE FACT THAT IT IS
FIRST  AND THAT THEY ARE GOING
FOR SOME OF THESE RED MEAT
ARGUMENTS AND THEY ARE ARGUING
THIS PROCESS IN ADDITION
TO WHETHER OR NOT TRUMP DID
ANYTHING WRONG. WE SAW
REPUBLICANS OF THE HOUSE
PROCEEDINGS THROW A LOT OF
DEFENSE OF THE WALL BUT ONE
CONSISTENT THEME WAS AT THE
HOUSE DEMOCRATS THAT WERE
CONDUCTING THIS HAD DONE SO
INAPPROPRIATELY WITH NOT GIVING
TIME AND DOING THINGS LIKE
ACCUSING SCHIFF OF BEING
MISLEADING IN THE ARGUMENT
WHICH WAS A BIT OF A STRETCH. HE
WAS DOING MORE THAN PARAPHRASING
AND HEATED SO FAIRLY ACCURATELY
BUT YOU CAN EXPECT
LIKE WE DID TODAY, A LOT OF
ARGUMENTS ABOUT HOW DEMOCRATS
WANT ABOUT THEIR HEARING.
>> LET'S BRING TOM INTO THE
CONVERSATION.
>> I DID THINK THE POINT THAT
THE REPUBLICAN MANAGERS MADE
ABOUT
CHAIRMAN
SCHIFF'S CARICATURE AND TALKING
IN A MAFIA WASTED POINT TO ONE
OF TWO ERRORS THAT  SCHIFF HAS
MADE IN AN OTHERWISE PRETTY
PERFORMANCE .
ONE WAS LEADING THAT OPENING FOR
THE CRITICISM WE SAW TODAY. THE
DEMOCRATS LED BY SCHIFF AND
SPEAKER PELOSI HAD THE SOMBER
NATURE OF THIS PROCEEDING AND TO
GO INTO
A CARICATURE OF THE PRESENT WAS
A MISTAKE. HE HAS BEEN CALLED ON
IT AND I THOUGHT THE OTHER
MISTAKE RELATES TO SOMETHING WE
TALKED ABOUT A MOMENT AGO WHICH
IS THE CURIOUS SLOWNESS OR PAUSE
THAT THE DEMOCRATS PUT ON THE
EFFORT TO SUBPOENA JOHN BOLTON.
I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND A COUPLE OF
DECISIONS IN WHICH WE THINK THE
DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP MUST HAVE
PLAYED A ROLE AND I WONDER IF
NOW THEY ARE NOT REGRETTING IT.
IT GOES BACK TO THE REQUEST BY
BOTH AND HIS ATTORNEY AND THE
EFFORT TO BRING THAT CASE TO THE
DEPUTY TO FORCE A SUBPOENA FROM
THE HOUSE AND THEN FORCE THE
COURTS TO DECIDE WHETHER IN FACT
GOVERNMENT AND JUMBLE SHOULD HE
BE SUBPOENAED
WOULD BE REQUIRED TO TESTIFY
BEFORE THE HOUSE. IT WOULD ALSO
SET A PRECEDENT FOR TESTIFYING
BEFORE THE SENATE AS WELL FOR A
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR AND
THE DEMOCRATS COUNSEL ASKED THAT
THE SUIT BE DROPPED. THEY NEVER
ISSUED A SUBPOENA TO JOHN BOLTON
BUT WHY NOT? WHY NOT PURSUE
EVERY LEGAL AVENUE TO GET THIS
WITNESS AND OTHER
WITNESSES TO TESTIFY BUT IT IS A
CASE OF THE BALL BEING DROPPED
OR THAT IS HOW IT SEEMS TO ME.
THEY HAVE AN ARGUMENT TO
EXPLAIN.
>> THE ARGUMENT IS THAT IT WAS
A DISTRACTION AND IT TAKES TOO
MUCH TIME. THEY HAD ALREADY
DEVELOPED A SIGNIFICANT CASE
AGAINST THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES AND THEY HAD
ANOTHER CASE THAT WOULD HAVE
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE THAT A
FORMER WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL BEGAN
AND THAT WAS WHEN THEY PROVED
TO PUT THEIR LEGAL EGGS INTO
THAT BASKET IF YOU WILL. THE
QUESTION IS WHY NOT PURSUE EVERY
OPTION AND PARTICULARLY ONE THAT
IS LAID ON THE TABLE FOR A
WITNESS THAT COULD BE OF
PARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE'S.
>> I WANT TO BRING OUT JAY WHO
IS PRESENT THE PRESIDENT AND HE
SAID A COUPLE OF THINGS THAT
ALSO WERE NOT CORRECT. HE
CLAIMED WHITE HOUSE WAS NOT
ALLOWED TO HAVE COUNSEL DURING
THE HOUSE PHASE OF THIS AND THAT
IS NOT TRUE. THE WHITE HOUSE
ELECTED TO NOT BE INVOLVED IN
THAT AND ALSO USE THE KEY PHRASE
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP IS VERY
FOND OF, NO OBSTRUCTION SAYING
THAT ROBERT MILLER AND THE
SPECIAL COUNSEL FOUND NO
OBSTRUCTION BUT THAT IS ALSO NOT
TRUE. THAT DOES SEEM TO BE
APPEALING TO EXACTLY WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP MIGHT WANT TO
HEAR.
>> THAT IS EXACTLY RIGHT. I
THINK IT WAS AN EVEN MORE
OBVIOUS WAY IN WHICH HE DID THAT
AND HE MADE A REFERENCE TO AN
INSURANCE POLICY WHICH FOR A
CERTAIN SEGMENT, THE AMERICAN
PUBLISHING
HAS AN IMMEDIATE REACTION AND
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT HE MEANS
WHEN HE SAYS THAT. HE IS
REFERRING TO A TEXT MESSAGE FROM
ONE FBI EMPLOYEE TO ANOTHER
WHICH HAS BEEN TAKEN OUT OF
CONTEXT TO TRY TO PRESENT THAT
THERE WAS THIS BIG CONSPIRACY TO
COME UP WITH INSURANCE POLICIES
AND THAT IS NOT ACTUALLY WHAT
THE MESSAGE WAS ABOUT BUT THIS
HAS BEEN USED OVER AND OVER
AGAIN AS A SELF EVIDENT
DEMONSTRATION OF THE EXISTENCE
OF THIS SORT OF CONSPIRACY.
THAT ATTORNEY MAKING THIS CASE
ON THE SENATE FLOOR ABOUT
IMPEACHMENT REFERRED TO THIS
CONSERVATIVE TALKING POINT THAT
I THINK IS EXTREMELY TELLING
ABOUT
THIS IN PART.
>> YOU ALSO HAD A STORE TODAY
ABOUT THE ROLE OF CHIEF JUSTICE
ROBERTS AND IT IS INTERESTING TO
SEE HOW ACTIVE HE WILL BE IN
THIS PROCESS AND WHAT IS HIS
ROLE BUT WHAT IS HIS ROLE LAID
OUT TO BE AND WHAT DO WE EXPECT
FROM HIM?
>> AS LAID OUT, IT IS EXTREMELY
VAGUE AND ESSENTIALLY THE PEOPLE
ARE LOOKING THAT NORMALLY THE
SENATE IS PROVIDED BY THE VICE
PRESIDENT. IT IS NOT ALWAYS
THERE BUT HE HAS THE POWER TO
CAST TIE-BREAKING VOTES. THE
CONSTITUTION SAYS IN THE EVENT
OF THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF THE
PRESIDENT, IT IS THE CHIEF
JUSTICE THAT HOLDS THAT ROLE
BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY THE VICE
PRESIDENT WOULD BECOME PRESIDENT
IF THE PRESIDENT WERE REMOVED
FROM OFFICE BUT BEYOND THAT AND
SAY A WHOLE LOT. I SPOKE WITH
THE CONSTITUTIONAL LAW PROFESSOR
BUT EXPRESSED THAT THERE IS AND
THEY IS ABOUT THIS AND IN THE
PAST IMPEACHMENT TRIALS THAT WE
HAVE SEEN OF ANDREW JOHNSON AND
BILL CLINTON, THE TWO CHIEF
JUSTICES HAD DIFFERENT TASKS SO
THEY WERE VERY INVOLVED AND HE
WOULD CAST HYBRID VOTES IN THE
SAME WAY THAT A VICE PRESIDENT
WOULD ON ISSUES OF THE
METHODOLOGY OF HOW THINGS ARE
PROGRESSING AND WILLIAM RANKE
WAS MUCH MORE HANDS-OFF. THE
EXPERTS NOTED THAT ROBERTS WAS
CONSERVATIVE AND HELD TO THE
CONSERVATIVE VALUE OF THE
PRESIDENT BEING A POWERFUL
INSTITUTION AND THAT HE DOESN'T
WANT THE SUPREME COURT TO LOOK
PARTISAN SO AS SUCH HE PROBABLY
WOULD OPT FOR A MUCH MORE
HANDS-OFF DEMONSTRATION OF HIS
ROLE AS PART OF THIS TRIAL BUT
HE HAS LITTLE BIT MORE
FLEXIBILITY AND POWER THAT HE
COULD EXERCISE IF YOU CHOSE TO
DO SO.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH. TRUMPS
LEGAL TEAM WILL BEGIN THE TRIAL
DEFENSE SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR
ANALYSIS AND YOUR ADDITIVES AND
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
NATALIE, THIS IDEA OF A CHUMP
DEFENSE, WHAT DOES THAT SAY TO
YOU?
>> WE HAVE HEARD A LOT OVER THE
LAST COUPLE OF YEARS ABOUT
PEOPLE  GOING ON TO DEFEND
PRESIDENT TRUMP WHETHER IN A
CONGRESSIONAL SETTING OR ON
TABLE NEWS OR IF THERE'S AN
AUDIENCE OF ONE THAT THEY ARE'S
IN TWO. OBVIOUSLY, THE LEGAL
TEAM IS TRYING TO MAKE THAT
POINT TO A LOT OF PEOPLE BUT
THERE IS ALSO ONE IMPORTANT
PERSON
THAT THEY ARE TRYING TO SHOW
THAT THEY WILL BAT FOR AND THAT
IS PRESIDENT TRUMP AND HIS
OPINION OF HOW HIS TEAM IS DOING
AND WHETHER THEY ARE
REPRESENTING HIM IN A WAY THAT
HE WOULD LIKE WHICH TENDS TO BE
AGGRESSIVELY NOT GIVING A LOT OF
GROUND WITH SOMEONE THAT WANTS
TO SHORE UP THE PEOPLE THAT ARE
ALREADY ON HIS SIDE. THAT IS THE
TOWN THAT WE WOULD CALL A CHUMP
DEFENSE.
>> WHAT IS SO FASCINATING IS
THE SENATORS ARE IN THAT CHAMBER
WITHOUT THEIR DEVICES AND THEIR
AIDES AND IF THEY ARE DOING
THEIR JOB, THEY ARE ACTIVELY
LISTENING. I WONDER HOW THIS
DEFENSE IS PLAYING WITH THEM. IF
YOU ARE IN SUPPORT OF THE
PRESIDENT WALKING IN
, IT MIGHT REALLY HAVE THE NOTES
THAT YOU WANT TO HEAR BUT IF
YOU'RE TRYING TO MAKE UP YOUR
MIND ABOUT WHETHER THE DEFENSE
IS ENOUGH
TO EXONERATE HIM OR SAY HE
SHOULD NOT BE REMOVED FROM
OFFICE, I WANT TO HOW SOME OF
THESE ARGUMENTS ARE HITTING AND
IF SENATORS WILL BE ABLE TO
WEIGH THEM AND WILL THEY HAVE
CONCERNS?
SOME OF THE BASIC IDEAS OF THE
DEFENSE IS PUTTING FORTH ARE
FACTUALLY INCORRECT.
>> IT IS SUCH AN INTERESTING
QUESTION AND OF COURSE WE
HAVEN'T HAD A CHANCE TO GET THE
FULL DOWNLOAD FROM THOSE THAT
ARE IN THE CHAMBER BUT IN THIS
IS TO VOMIT WITH WHICH MEMBERS
IN THE SENATE BECOME JURORS
AND SITTING ON THE SENATE FLOOR
BENEATH THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE
U. S. SUPREME COURT. IT IS A
HISTORIC MOMENT AND WEIGHED WITH
HISTORY AND TRADITION. WE SAW
THE CENTER AT THE OPENING OF
TODAY'S HEARING BEING SWORN IN
AND WE ALL HEARD THAT OATH WITH
THE PROMISE TO MAKE A JUDGMENT
AND INDEPENDENT JUDGMENT WITH
THE COURT OF THE CONSTITUTION SO
ONE WOULD SENSE THAT THE WEIGHT
OF HISTORY IS UPON THOSE MEMBERS
WHO ARE IN THE CHAMBER AND THERE
ARE ALSO POLITICAL ACTORS SO
THIS IS ALSO UPON THEM. I HAVE
BEEN WATCHING FOR WHAT MEMBERS
OF THE SENATE WOULD SAY THAT AND
YOU MAY HAVE DISCUSSED THIS
ALREADY BUT THAT ROMNEY WAS A
SENATOR FROM UTAH THAT WAS
INTERVIEWED BY CNN ONE HOUR OR
TWO AGO. I THOUGHT THIS WAS HIS
CAREFULLY BALANCED SELF IN WHICH
HE SAID HE THOUGHT THE RULES
WERE REASONABLE AND THE
COMPLAINTS WERE A BIT OVERDONE
SINCE RULES CHANGE A LITTLE BIT
FROM IMPEACHMENT AND SORT OF
WAVED AWAY THIS ARGUMENT THAT
THE PROMISE OF THESE WOULD BE
THE BILL QUIT IMPEACHMENT RULES
ARE NOT PRECISELY SO BUT ON THE
OTHER HAND HE SAID HE REITERATED
THAT THIS IS SOMETHING WE HAVE
KNOWN BUT IT WAS INTERESTING FOR
ME TO HEAR IT FOR US TO HEAR IT
ON THE OPENING DAY THAT HE IS
INTERESTED IN HEARING FROM
WITNESSES AND HE MENTIONED JOHN
BOLTON IN PARTICULAR.
YOU KNOW HE TOLD SEEN AND I
WOULD LIKE TO HEAR FROM HIM.
>> ALL RIGHT, THERE IS THE
QUESTION OF HOW SENATORS COULD
BE SWAYED. THEY SWORE AN OATH OF
IMPARTIALITY BUT SO MANY OF THEM
HAVE GONE WITH THEIR MINDS
ALREADY MADE UP.
>>
THAT IS THE KEY PART OF THAT
POINT. WE SAW LAST WEEK WHEN
THERE WAS SO MUCH INFORMATION
COMING OUT ABOUT
AN ASSOCIATE OF GIULIANI THAT
WAS UNDER INDICTMENT, WE LEARNED
A TON OF NEW INFORMATION LAST
WEEK AND THAT SEEMED TO CHANGE
THINGS.
MAYBE NOT REMARKABLY BUT THAT IS
A LOT OF NEW INFORMATION AND YOU
CAN IMAGINE HOW THAT COULD
BECOME THE CASE. I THINK THAT IS
PROBABLY A LOT OF THE REASON WHY
PRESIDENT TRUMP WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE THIS OVER IN JUST A COUPLE
OF WEEKS BECAUSE THE MORE
INFORMATION THAT IS REACHING THE
SENATORS THAT ARE IN THE
DIFFICULT ELECTORAL POSITIONS
AND CENTERS THAT WANT TO SEE THE
TRUTH COME OUT, THE MORE TIME
THAT GOES BY,  THEY RISK MORE
THINGS LIKE THAT COMING OUT.
>> MY CULTURE HAS SAID THE HE
IS PIVOTING HIS ADS TOWARDS
PRO-IMPEACHMENT AND THOSE WILL
BE AIRING IN THE BATTLEGROUND
STATES. LET'S GET TO OUR
COLLEAGUE,
RHONDA COLEMAN. I WOULD LIKE TO
HEAR FROM YOU ON THIS RESOLUTION
AND HOW MUCH McCONNELL HAD SET
THINGS UP TODAY AND IN THE QUICK
PIVOT WE SAW AS A TRIAL
PROCEDURE GOT UNDERWAY THIS
AFTERNOON.
>> THAT IS RIGHT. I DON'T THINK
IT SHOULD BE UNDER REPORT THAT
MITCH McCONNELL, THE SENATE
MAJORITY LEADER DID CHANGE HIS
MIND FROM THE ORIGINAL DRAFT
THAT WE SAW LAST NIGHT OF THE
ORGANIZING RESOLUTION AND LAST
NIGHT AND EVEN THIS MORNING, WE
RECORDED BECAUSE WE WERE HERE
FROM HIS OFFICE THAT THIS
ORGANIZING RESOLUTION WOULD KEEP
PASS RECORD THAT ALL THE
TRANSCRIPTS AND THE EVIDENCE
THAT IT WOULD NOT BE
AUTOMATICALLY ADDED INTO THE
SENATE TRIAL BUT LATER TODAY
AROUND LUNCHTIME AND IN FACT
RIGHT AFTER THE SENATE LOOKING
CAUCUS MET FOR LUNCH, MITCH
McCONNELL'S OFFICE DID SAY HE
MADE CHANGES TO THE RESOLUTION
AND THEY REFLECT THAT NOW THE
HOUSE RECORD WILL BE ON MANIC
ADDED TO THE SENATE TRIAL AND IF
WE CAN BRING UP THE RESOLUTION
AND WHAT IT APPEARS, VIEWERS AT
HOME MAY NOT KNOW THAT THIS
OFTEN IS NOT AS A FORMAL PROCESS
AND SUBJECT TO ANY OBJECTIONS,
THAT IS GIVING THE REPUBLICANS A
WAY OUT THAT THE REPUBLICANS
WILL BE ABLE TO OBJECT TO HAVING
THAT HOUSE RECORD OBJECTED. THAT
IS REALLY INTERESTING AND THE
OTHER POINT THAT HE CHANGED IS
THE ROLE THAT WOULD CAUSE THE
SENATE TO HAVE THESE OPENING
ARGUMENTS OVER THE COURSE OF TWO
DAYS ABOUT IS HOW IT WAS
ORIGINALLY AND THEN HE CHANGED
IT OVER THE COURSE OF THREE
DAYS.
>> THANKS SO MUCH. LET'S HEAD
BACK TO THE SENATE FLOOR.
>> THE FIRST ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT CHARGES THE
PRESIDENT  WAS USING THE POWER
OF HIS OFFICE TO SOLICIT AND
PRESSURE UKRAINE TO ANNOUNCE
INVESTIGATIONS THAT EVERYONE IN
THIS CHAMBER KNOWS TO BE BOGUS.
THE PRESIDENT DIDN'T EVEN CARE
IF AN INVESTIGATION WAS ACTUALLY
CONDUCTED. JUST THAT IT WAS
ANNOUNCED. WHY? BECAUSE THIS WAS
FOR HIS OWN PERSONAL AND
POLITICAL BENEFIT. THE FIRST
ARTICLE IS THAT THE PRESIDENT
DID SO WITH CORRUPT MOTIVES AND
THAT HIS USE OF POWER FOR
PERSONAL GAIN HARMED THE
NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE UNITED
STATES. AS THE SECOND ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT CHARGES, THE
PRESIDENT SOUGHT TO CONCEAL
EVIDENCE OF THIS CONDUCT. HE DID
SO BY ORDERING HIS ENTIRE
ADMINISTRATION AND EVERY OFFICE
AND AGENCY AND EVERY OFFICIAL TO
DEFY EVERY SUBPOENA. THIRD IN
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT. NO
PRESIDENT IN HISTORY HAS EVER
DONE ANYTHING LIKE THIS.
MANY PRESIDENTS HAVE EXPRESSLY
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THEY COULDN'T
DO ANYTHING LIKE THIS. PRESIDENT
TRUMP DID NOT TAKE THESE EXTREME
STEPS TO HIDE EVIDENCE OF HIS
INNOCENCE. OR TO PROTECT THE
INSTITUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY AS
A CAREER LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER, I HAVE NEVER SEEN
ANYONE TAKE SUCH EXTREME STEPS
TO HIDE EVIDENCE ALLEGEDLY
PROVING HIS INNOCENCE. I DO NOT
FIND THAT HERE TODAY. THE
PRESIDENT IS ENGAGED IN THIS
COVER-UP BECAUSE HE IS GUILTY
AND HE KNOWS IT. HE KNOWS THAT
THE EVIDENCE HE IS CONCEALING
WILL ONLY FURTHER DEMONSTRATE
THAT. NOTWITHSTANDING THIS
EFFORT TO STONEWALL THE HOUSE
AND MESSED
EVIDENCE OF THE PRESIDENTS HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS. 17
WITNESSES AND 130 HOURS OF
TESTIMONY COMBINED WITH THE
PRESIDENT ON A MISSION ON PHONE
CALLS AND PUBLIC COMMENTS
CONFIRMED AN COOPERATED BY
HUNDREDS OF EMAILS AND
DOCUMENTS. MUCH OF THE EVIDENCE
CAME FROM PATRIOTIC NONPARTISAN
DECORATED OFFICIALS IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT. THEY ARE BRAVE MEN
AND WOMEN THAT HONOR THEIR
OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE LAWS AND
GAVE TESTIMONY REQUIRED BY
CONGRESSIONAL SUBPOENA IN THE
FACE OF THE PRESIDENT. THESE
OFFICIALS DESCRIBE THE PRESENCE
CAMPAIGN TO INDUCE THE PRESSURE
TO ANNOUNCE POLITICAL
INVESTIGATIONS AND ISSUES OF 391
MILLION DOLLARS OF VITAL
MILITARY AID. TAXPAYER MONEY
APPROPRIATED ON A BIPARTISAN
BASIS BY CONGRESS AS LEVERAGE TO
FORGE UKRAINE TO COMPLY AND IS
WITHHOLDING OF A MEETING
DESPERATELY SOUGHT BY THE NEWLY
ELECTED PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE.
THIS TESTIMONY WAS PARTICULARLY
COMPELLING BECAUSE THE STATE
DEPARTMENT IS AT THE VERY CENTER
OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S WRONGDOING.
WE HEARD FIRST-HAND FROM
DIPLOMATIC OFFICIALS THAT SAW UP
CLOSE AND PERSONNEL PERSONALLY
WHAT WAS HAPPENING AND WHO
IMMEDIATELY SOUNDED THE ALARM.
AMBASSADOR WILLIAM TAYLOR WHO
RETURNED TO UKRAINE IN JUNE OF
LAST YEAR AS ACTING IMPASSE AT
HER TEXT AT OTHER STATE
DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS. I THINK IT
IS CRAZY TO WITHHOLD SECURITY
ASSISTANCE FOR HELP WITH A
POLITICAL CAMPAIGN. THE
AMBASSADOR TO THE EUROPEAN
UNION, GORDON
SONDLAND WHO WAS DELEGATED
AUTHORITY OVER UKRAINE MANNERS
BY NONE OTHER THAN PRESIDENT
TRUMP TESTIFIED THAT WE KNEW
THESE INVESTIGATIONS WERE
IMPORTANT TO THE PRESIDENT. WE
FOLLOWED THE PRESIDENT'S ORDERS.
DAVID HOLMES, A SENIOR OFFICIAL
AT THE U. S. EMBASSY SAID IT WAS
MADE CLEAR THAT SOME ACTION ON
ABIDING INVESTIGATION WAS A
CONDITIONED FOR AN OVAL OFFICE
MEETING. DURING THEIR TESTIMONY,
MANY OF THE STATE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS DESCRIBED SPECIFIC
DOCUMENTS INCLUDING TEXT
MESSAGES AND EMAILS WITH FORMER
DIPLOMATIC TABLES
THAT WOULD COOPERATE THEIR
TESTIMONY AND SHED ADDITIONAL
LIGHT ON PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
CORRUPTING. FOR INSTANCE,
INVESTOR TAYLOR THAT RAISE
CONCERNS THAT MILITARY AID HAD
BEEN CONDITIONED ON THE PRESENCE
DEMAND FOR POLITICAL
INVESTIGATIONS DESCRIBED A
NOTEBOOK IN WHICH HE WOULD TAKE
NOTES ON CONVERSATIONS HE HAD
WITH KEY OFFICIALS. AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND REFERRED  TO EMAILS
REGARDING THE PRESENCE DEMAND
THAT UKRAINE ANNOUNCE POLITICAL
INVESTIGATIONS. AS WE WILL SEE
THROUGH EMAILS THAT WERE SENT TO
SOME OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ADVISORS INCLUDING ACTING WHITE
HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF, NICK
MOBILITY AND SEDENTARY OF STATE
MICHAEL POMPEO AND SECRETARY OF
ENERGY, RICK PERRY. THE DEPUTY
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE
GEORGE KENT WHO OVERSAW UKRAINE
POLICY MANNERS IN WASHINGTON FOR
THE STATE DEPARTMENT WROTE AT
LEAST FOUR MEMOS TO DOCUMENT
CONCERNING CONDUCT HE WITNESSED
OR HEARD.
AMBASSADOR VOELKER, THE SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE FOR UKRAINE
NEGOTIATIONS PROVIDED EVIDENCE
THAT HE AND OTHER AMERICAN
OFFICIALS COMMUNICATED WITH
HIGH-LEVEL UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS
INCLUDING PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY HIMSELF.  VIA TEXT
MESSAGE AND WHAT'S UP ABOUT THE
PRESIDENTS
IMPROPER DEMAND OF HOW UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS WOULD RESPOND TO THEM
BASED ON THE TESTIMONY WE
RECEIVED AN ON EVIDENCE THAT HAS
SINCE EMERGED WITH ALL OF THESE
DOCUMENTS AND OTHERS THAT WE
WILL DESCRIBE. THEY ARE DIRECTLY
ON THE ALLEGATIONS SET FORTH IN
THE FIRST ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT. THEY WOULD HELP
COMPLETE OUR UNDERSTANDING OF
HOW THE PRESIDENTS SCHEME
UNFOLDED IN REAL TIME. THEY
WOULD SUPPORT THE CONCLUSION
THAT THE SENIOR UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS UNDERSTOOD THE CORRUPT
NATURE OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
DEMANDS AND THEY WOULD FURTHER
EXPOSE THE EXTENT TO WHICH
SECRETARY POMPEO AND THE ACTING
CHIEF OF STAFF NICK MULVANEY AND
OTHER SENIOR TRUMP DEMONSTRATION
OFFICIALS WERE AWARE OF THE
PRESIDENTS PLOT AND HELPED CARRY
IT OUT. WE ARE NOT TALKING ABOUT
A BURDEN OR A NUMBER OF
DOCUMENTS. WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
A SPECIFIC DISCRETE SET OF
MATERIALS HELD BY THE STATE
DEPARTMENT. DOCUMENTS THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS ALREADY COLLECTED
IN RESPONSE TO OUR SUBPOENA BUT
HAVE NEVER PRODUCED. WE KNOW
THESE MATERIALS EXIST. WE KNOW
THEY ARE RELEVANT AND WE KNOW
THE PRESIDENT IS DESPERATELY
TRYING TO CONCEAL THEM. AS I
WILL DESCRIBE, THE SENATE SHOULD
SUBPOENA THE FOLLOWING. NUMBER
ONE,
WHAT'S APP
AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS AND
THEN EMAILS AND NOTES. GIVEN THE
SYNDICATES AND RELEVANCE OF
THESE DOCUMENTS, THE HOUSE
REQUESTED THAT THEY BE PROVIDED.
WHEN THESE REQUESTS WERE DENIED
, WHEN OUR REQUEST WAS DENIED,
THE HOUSE ISSUED SUBPOENAS
COMMANDING THAT THE DOCUMENTS BE
TURNED OVER.
AT THE PRESIDENTS DIRECTION, THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE UNLAWFULLY
DEFINED THAT SUBPOENA AND I
STAND HERE NOW AS I STAND HERE
NOW, THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS
ALL THESE DOCUMENTS IN ITS
POSSESSION BUT REFUSES BASED ON
THE PRESIDENTS ORDER TO LET THEM
SEE THE LIGHT OF DAY. THIS IS A
FRONT TO THE HOUSE WHICH HAS
FULL POWER TO SEE THESE
DOCUMENTS. IT IS A FRONT TO THE
SENATE WHICH HAS BEEN DENIED A
FULL RECORD ON WHICH TO JUDGE
THE PRESIDENTS GUILT OR
INNOCENCE AND IT IS AN AFFRONT
TO THE CONSTITUTION WHICH MAKES
CLEAR THAT NOBODY, NOT EVEN THE
PRESIDENT IS ABOVE THE LAW. IT
IS AN AFFRONT TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WHO HAVE A RIGHT TO KNOW
WHAT THE PRESIDENT AND HIS
ALLIES ARE HIDING FROM THEM. WHY
IT IS BEING HIDDEN. PRIOR
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS, THE BODY HAS
ISSUED SUBPOENAS REQUIRING THE
RECIPIENT TO HANDOVER RELEVANT
DOCUMENTS. IT MUST DO SO AGAIN
HERE. IT MUST DO SO NOW AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE TRIAL, NOT THE
END.
OF COURSE, THE NEED FOR US AND
THAT SUBPOENA ARISES BECAUSE AS
I HAVE NOTED, THE PRISON ORDERED
THE STATE DEPARTMENT TO DEFY A
SUBPOENA FROM THE HOUSE. AT THIS
POINT I WOULD LIKE TO DESCRIBE
THEIR OWN EFFORTS TO GET THOSE
MATERIALS AND I WILL ADDRESS IN
A MORE DETAILED FASHION EXACTLY
WHAT DOCUMENTS THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS HIDDEN FROM THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND WHY THE
SENATE SHOULD REQUIRE THEM TO
TURN IT OVER. ONSET OVERNIGHT,
THERE WAS ARTICLE 1 WITH THE
HOUSE INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE
SEEING A DOCUMENT REQUEST TO THE
STATE DEPARTMENT. THE COMMITTEE
SOUGHT WRITTEN MATERIALS RELATED
TO THE PRESENCE EFFORT TO
PRESSURE UKRAINE TO ANNOUNCE
INVESTIGATIONS INTO HIS
POLITICAL RIVAL AS WELL AS HIS
DANGER TO AND EXPLAIN
WITHHOLDING OF MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS IN VITAL
MILITARY AID. AFTER THE STATE
DEPARTMENT FAILED TO PRODUCE ANY
DOCUMENTS, THE HOUSE COMMITTEE
ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS ISSUED A
SUBPOENA TO THE STATE DEPARTMENT
ON SEPTEMBER 27
IN A LETTER ON OCTOBER 1,
SECRETARY POMPEO ACKNOWLEDGED A
RECEIPT OF THE SUBPOENA. AT THAT
TIME, HE STATED HE WOULD RESPOND
TO THE COMMITTEE SUBPOENA FOR
DOCUMENTS BY THE RETURN DATE OF
OCTOBER 4. HIS RESPONSE NEVER
CAME. INSTEAD, ON OCTOBER 8,
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LAWYER WRITING
ON THE PRESENCE THE HALF ISSUED
A DIRECTION SAYING THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION WOULD STONEWALL.
THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY AND
TODAY THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS
NOT PRODUCED A SINGLE DOCUMENT.
NOT A SINGLE DOCUMENT IN
RESPONSE TO THE CONGRESSIONAL
SUBPOENA. WITNESSES HAVE
TESTIFIED AND INDICATED THAT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT HAD GATHERED
ALL OF THE RECORDS AND WAS
PREPARED TO PROVIDE THEM BEFORE
THE WHITE HOUSE DIRECTED IT TO
DEFY THE SUBPOENA.
NOTWITHSTANDING THIS UNLAWFUL
OBSTRUCTION WITH THE TESTIMONY
OF THE BRAVE STATE DEPARTMENT
EMPLOYEES, THE HOUSE WAS ABLE TO
IDENTIFY WITH REMARKABLE
PRECISION SEVERAL CATEGORIES OF
DOCUMENTS RELEVANT TO THE FIRST
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT THAT IS
SEEN RIGHT NOW. THESE DOCUMENTS
ARE SITTING RIGHT NOW AT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT. I WOULD LIKE
TO WALK YOU THROUGH FOUR KEY
CATEGORIES OF DOCUMENTS THAT
SHOULD BE SUBPOENAED AND WHICH
ILLUSTRATE THE HIGHLY RELEVANT
DOCUMENTS THE STATE DEPARTMENT
COULD PRODUCE. THEY COULD
PRODUCE THEM IMMEDIATELY FOR
THIS TRIAL. THE FIRST CATEGORY
CONSISTS OF TEXT MESSAGES AND
WHAT'S APP
CAUGHT UP IN THESE EVENTS
INCLUDING AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
AND TAYLOR AND ALSO THE DEPUTY
ASSISTANT  TO TERRY GEORGE KENT.
ALL THREE OF WHOM CONFIRMED
THEIR TESTIMONY THAT THEY
REGULARLY USE
WHAT'S APP TO COMMUNICATE.  THE
SECRETARY CAN EXPLAIN THAT
WHAT'S APP IS A DOMINANT FORM OF
ELECTRONIC INDICATION  IN
CERTAIN PARTS OF THE WORLD. WE
KNOW THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS
THE RECORDS OF WHAT'S APP AND
TEXT MESSAGES  FROM CRITICAL
EYEWITNESSES TO THESE
PROCEEDINGS INCLUDING FROM
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND ANN TAYLOR
AND DEPUTY ASSISTANT  TO TERRY
KENT. WE KNOW THE DEPARTMENT IS
DELIBERATELY CONCEALING THESE
REC'S AT THE DIRECTION OF THE
PRESIDENT AND WE KNOW THEY CAN
CONTAIN HIGHLY RELEVANT
TESTIMONY ABOUT THE PRESIDENTS
PLAN TO CONDITION OFFICIAL
PRESIDENTIAL ACTS ON THE
ANNOUNCEMENTS OF INVESTIGATIONS
FOR HIS OWN PERSONAL AND
POLITICAL GAIN. WE KNOW THIS NOT
ONLY FROM TESTIMONY BUT ALSO
BECAUSE THE AMBASSADOR WAS ABLE
TO PROVIDE US WITH A SMALL BUT
TELLING SELECTION OF HIS WHAT'S
APP MESSAGES.  THOSE RECORDS
CONFIRM WITH A FULL REVIEW
OF THESE MESSAGES FROM RELEVANT
OFFICIALS AND THIS WOULD HELP TO
PAINT A VIVID FIRST-HAND PICTURE
OF STATEMENTS AND DECISIONS AND
CONCERNS AND BELIEFS HELD BY
IMPORTANT PLAYERS OF EVENTS
UNFOLDING IN REAL TIME. FOR
EXAMPLE, THINGS TO AMBASSADOR
BROKERS MESSAGES, WE KNOW THAT
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND, A KEEP
PLAYER IN THE PRESSURE CAMPAIGN
THAT TESTIFIED IN THE HOUSE
ABOUT EIGHT QUID PRO QUO
ARRANGEMENT WENT DIRECTLY WITH
THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT,
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY.  THIS IMAGE
PRODUCED BY
AMBASSADOR VOLKER APPEARS TO BE
A SCREENSHOT OF A TEXT MESSAGE
THAT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
EXCHANGE WITH  PRESIDENT
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY ABOUT PLANS
FOR THE WHITE HOUSE  VISIT THE
VERY SAME VISIT THAT PRESIDENT
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY BADLY NEEDED
AND THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP LATER
WITHHELD AS PART OF THE QUID PRO
QUO DESCRIBED BY AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND IN HIS TESTIMONY.  THIS
BODY AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
HAVE A RIGHT TO KNOW WHAT ELSE
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND AND
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY SET
ANOTHER  REALM AND EXCHANGES
ABOUT THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING OR
ABOUT MILITARY AID AND THE
PRESIDENTS DEMAND.
WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT WAS
CONVEYED AND WHEN. WE DON'T KNOW
PRESIDENT TRUMP JERKED INTO THE
STATE DEPARTMENT TO CONCEAL
THESE RECORDS. THESE ARE RECORDS
OF THE STATE DEPARTMENT WOULD
HAVE OTHERWISE TURNED OVER IF
NOT FOR THE PRESIDENTS DIRECTION
AND DESIRE TO COVER UP HIS
WRONGDOING. TO GET A SENSE OF
WHY
WHAT'S APP MESSAGES ARE SO
VITAL, JUST CONSIDER WHETHER
ANOTHER PIECE OF EVIDENCE  WOULD
BE CLAIMED FROM THE PARTIAL
PROTECTION. ON JULY 10 AT THE
WHITE HOUSE MEETING AT WHICH
AMBASSADOR LIBBY CASEY  SONDLAND
QUESTIONED OFFICIALS
AND THEY SAID I FEEL THAT THE
KEY FOR MANY THINGS IS RUDY AND
I'M READY TO TALK WITH HIM AT
ANY TIME. THIS IS EVIDENCE THAT
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND'S ULTIMATUM  THAT
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS RECOGNIZED
THAT THEY NEED TO APPEASE RUDY
GIULIANI BY CARRYING OUT THE
INVESTIGATION. OF COURSE, MR.
GIULIANI HAD PUBLICLY CONFIRMED
THAT HE WAS NOT ENGAGED IN
FOREIGN POLICY BUT INSTEAD
ADVANCING HIS CLIENT, THE
PRESIDENTS OWN PERSONAL
INTERESTS. FURTHER, IN ANOTHER
TEXT MESSAGE EXCHANGE PROVIDED
BY AMBASSADOR VOLKER, WE SEE
EVIDENCE THAT UKRAINE UNDERSTOOD
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S DEMANDS LOUD
AND CLEAR. ON THE MORNING OF
JULY 25, AS AN HOUR BEFORE THE
INFAMOUS CALL BETWEEN PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY, AMBASSADOR VOCAL
WROTE TO A UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL
HEARD FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
ASSUMING THE PRESIDENT COMMENCES
TRUMP HE WILL INVESTIGATE AND
GET TO THE BOTTOM OF WHAT
HAPPENED IN 2016, WE WILL NAIL
DOWN A DATE OR VISIT TO
WASHINGTON. GOOD LUCK AND SEE
YOU TOMORROW. AMBASSADOR SALMON
CONFIRMS THAT THIS ACCURATELY
SUMMARIZES THE PRESENT DIRECTIVE
TO HIM EARLIER THIS MORNING.
AFTER THE PHONE CALL BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND PRESIDENT
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, THE
UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL RESPONDED
POINTEDLY. THE PHONE CALL WENT
WELL. HE THEN DISCUSSED
POTENTIAL DATES FOR A WHITE
HOUSE MEETING AND IN THE VERY
NEXT DAY, AMBASSADOR VOCAL OR
WROTE TO RUDY GIULIANI EXACTLY
THE RIGHT MESSAGES AS WE
DISCUSSED. THESE MESSAGES
CONFIRM MR. GIULIANI'S CENTRAL
ROLE AND PREMEDITATED NATURE OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP SOLICITATION OF
LOCAL INVESTIGATION AND THE
PRESSURE CAMPAIGN ON UKRAINE
WAGED BY MR. GIULIANI AND SENIOR
OFFICIALS AT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
DIRECTION. AGAIN, THIS IS JUST
SOME OF WHAT WE HAVE LEARNED
FROM AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND THE
RECORD. AS YOU WILL SING DURING
THE TRIAL PRESENTATION AND
NUMEROUS WHAT'S APP MESSAGES,
WHILE  AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND
SONDLAND AND GIULIANI WERE
PRESSURING  PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY  AND TOP NEEDS TO ISSUE
A STATEMENT ANNOUNCING THE
INVESTIGATION THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP WANTED. AMBASSADOR TAYLORS
TEXT THAT YOU SAW EARLIER ABOUT
WITHHOLDING AID FURTHER REVEALED
HOW MUCH MORE MATERIAL THERE
LIKELY IS THAT RELATES TO THE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT. THERE
CAN BE NO DOUBT THAT A FULL
PRODUCTION OF RELEVANT TEXT
MESSAGES AND WHAT'S APP MESSAGES
IN TOUCH WITH  UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS INCLUDED AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND ANN TAYLOR AND  CAN'T
WOULD FURTHER ILLUMINATE THE
MALFEASANCE ADDRESSED IN OUR
FIRST ARTICLE. THIS LEADS TO THE
SECOND CATEGORY OF DOCUMENTS
THAT THE STATE DEPARTMENT IS
UNLAWFULLY WITHHOLDING. EMAILS
INVOLVING KEY STATE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS CONCERNING
INTERACTIONS WITH SENIOR
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS AND RELATED
TO MILITARY AID OF WHITE HOUSE
MEETINGS AND THE PRESENT DEMAND
FOR INVESTIGATIONS. FOR EXAMPLE,
ON JULY 19, AMBASSADOR GORDON
SONDLAND SPOKE DIRECTLY WITH
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY
ABOUT THE UPCOMING JULY 25 CALL
BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY.
AMBASSADOR  SONDLAND SENT AN
EMAIL UPDATING KEY OFFICIALS
ABOUT SECRETARY POMPEO INCLUDING
SECRETARY POMPEO AND ACTING
WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF
ALBINI AND THE SENIOR ADVISOR,
ROBERT BLAIR. IN THIS EMAIL HE
NOTED THAT HE PREPARED PRESIDENT
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY THAT WAS
WILLING TO MAKE THE ANNOUNCEMENT
OF POLITICAL INVESTIGATIONS THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP DESIRED.
SECRETARY AND NICK MULVANEY THEN
RESPONDED TO SONDLAND
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THEY RECEIVED
THE EMAIL AND RECOMMENDING TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH THE PHONE CALL
THAT BECAME THE JULY 25th CALL
BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES AND UKRAINE. WE
KNOW ALL OF THIS NOT BECAUSE THE
STATE DEPARTMENT PROVIDED US
WITH CRITICAL DOCUMENTS BUT
INSTEAD BECAUSE AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND PROVIDED US OF
REPRODUCTION OF THE EMAIL . IN
HIS PUBLIC TESTIMONY, AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND  CORRECTLY EXPLAINED
THAT THIS EMAIL DEMONSTRATED
"EVERYONE WAS IN THE LOOP."
>> EVERYONE WAS IN THE LOOP . IT
WAS NO SECRET. EVERYONE WAS
INFORMED VIA EMAIL ON JULY 19,
DAYS BEFORE THE PRESIDENTIAL
CALL. AS I COMMUNICATED TO THE
TEAM, I TOLD PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY IN ADVANCE  THAT
ASSURANCES TO RUN A FULLY
TRANSPARENT INVESTIGATION AND
TURN OVER EVERY STONE WHERE
NECESSARY IN HIS CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
>> EVEN VIEWED ALONE, THIS
REPRODUCED EMAIL IS DAMNING. IT
WAS SENT SHORTLY AFTER THEY
PERSONALLY CONVEYED
THE DEMAND FOR INVESTIGATION TO
UKRAINIAN'S AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
WAITING SEVERAL OFFICIALS TO
SOUND ALARMS. IT WAS SENT JUST A
FEW DAYS BEFORE THE JULY 25 CALL
WHERE PRESIDENT TRUMP ASKED FOR
A FAVOR AND BY ITSELF, THIS
EMAIL SHOWS
WHO WAS ENTHRALLED INTO
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PLAN TO
PRESSURE THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT
FOR HIS OWN POLITICAL GAIN.
IT'S OBVIOUS THAT THE FULL EMAIL
CHAIN AND OTHER RELATED EMAILS
TO THE KEY TIME PERIOD WOULD
ALSO BE HIGHLY RELEVANT. WE
DON'T HAVE THOSE EMAILS BECAUSE
THE STATE DEPARTMENT IS HIDING
THEM AND AT THE DIRECTION OF THE
PRESIDENT. THE SENATE SHOULD
ISSUE THE PROPOSED SUBPOENA TO
ENSURE A COMPLETE RECORD OF THE
USE AND OTHER RELEVANT EMAILS.
ANY DOUBT THAT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT IS CONCEALING
CRITICAL EVIDENCE FROM THIS BODY
WAS RESOLVED WHEN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT WAS RECENTLY ORDERED
TO RELEASE DOCUMENTS AND
INCLUDED EMAILS PURSUANT TO A
LAWSUIT UNDER THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT. THESE DOCUMENTS
ARE HEAVILY REDACTED AND LIMITED
TO A VERY NARROW TIME PERIOD BUT
NEVERTHELESS, DESPITE THE HEAVY
REDACTION'S, THESE HIGHLY
LIMITED GLIMPSE INTO THE STATE
DEPARTMENT DEMONSTRATES THAT
THOSE RECORDS ARE FULL OF
INFORMATION RELEVANT TO THIS
TRIAL. FOR EXAMPLE, SEVERAL OF
THESE NEWLY ELECTED OR RELEASED
EMAILS SHOW MULTIPLE CONTACT
BETWEEN THE STATE DEPARTMENT
INCLUDING SECRETARY POMPEO AND
MR. GIULIANI THROUGHOUT 2019.
THIS WAS AN IMPORTANT FACT. MR.
GIULIANI SERVED AS THE PRESENCE
POINT PERSON AND EXECUTED HIS
CORRUPT SCHEME. MR. GIULIANI
REPEATEDLY EMPHASIZED THAT HIS
ROLE WAS TO ADVANCE THE
PRESIDENTS PERSONAL AGENDA.
THE PRESIDENTS POLITICAL
INTEREST NOT TO PROMOTE THE
NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF
THE UNITED STATES. THE FACT THAT
THE PRESIDENTS PRIVATE ATTORNEY
WAS IN CONTACT AT KEY JUNCTURES
WITH THE SECRETARY OF STATE WHO
SENIOR OFFICIALS WERE DIRECTED
BY THE PRESIDENT TO SUPPORT MR.
GIULIANI'S EFFORTS IN UKRAINE IS
RELEVANT, DISTURBING AND TELLING
. FOR EXAMPLE, WE KNOW THAT ON
MARCH 26 AS MR. GIULIANI WAS
PURSUING THE PRESIDENTS PRIVATE
AGENDA IN UKRAINE AND JUST ONE
WEEK AFTER THEY PUBLISHED AN
ARTICLE FEATURING THE UKRAINE
CONSPIRACY THEORY, SECRETARY
POMPEO AND MR. GIULIANI SPOKE
DIRECTLY ON THE PHONE. THAT SAME
WEEK, PRESIDENT TRUMP FORMED A
PERSONAL SECRETARY AND WAS ASKED
FOR A DIRECT CONNECTION TO
SECRETARY POMPEO. BASED ON THESE
RECORDS, IT IS ALSO CLEAR THAT
SECRETARY POMPEO WAS ALREADY
ACTIVELY ENGAGED WITH MR.
GIULIANI IN EARLY SPRING OF 2019
AND IT ALSO APPEARS THAT THESE
EFFORTS WERE BACKED BY THE WHITE
HOUSE GIVEN THE INVOLVEMENT OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PERSONAL
SECRETARY. THIS BODY AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE NEED TO SEE
THESE EMAILS AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT FLUSHING OUT THESE
EXCHANGES AND THE DETAIL
SURROUNDING MR. GIULIANI'S
COMMUNICATION WITH SECRETARY
POMPEO. MOREOVER, BASED ON CALL
RECORDS LAWFULLY OBTAINED BY THE
HOUSE FROM THIS PERIOD, WE KNOW
FROM MARCH 24 UNTIL MARCH 30
THAT MR. GIULIANI CALLED THE
WHITE HOUSE SEVERAL TIMES AND
ALSO CONNECTED WITH IN AN
IDENTIFIED NUMBER NUMEROUS
TIMES.
THESE RECORDS SHOW THAT ON MARCH
27, MR. GIULIANI LACED A SERIES
OF CALLS TO THE STATE DEPARTMENT
AND SECRETARY POMPEO'S ASSISTANT
IN THE WHITE HOUSE IN QUICK
SUCCESSION ALL WITHIN LESS THEN
30 MINUTES.
OBTAINING EMAILS AND OTHER
DOCUMENTS REGARDING THE STATE
DEPARTMENT'S LEADERSHIP
INTERACTION WITH PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S PRIVATE LAWYER IN THIS
PERIOD WHEN MR. GIULIANI WAS
ACTIVELY ORCHESTRATING THE
PRESSURE CAMPAIGN IN UKRAINE
RELATED TO THE SHAM
INVESTIGATION INTO VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN AND THE 2016
ELECTIONS WOULD FURTHER CLARIFY
THE PRESENCE INVOLVEMENT AND
DIRECTION AT THIS KEY JUNCTURE
AT THE FORMATION OF A PLOT TO
SOLICIT FOREIGN INTERFERENCE
INTO OUR ELECTIONS. WE ALSO KNOW
BASED ON RECENTLY OBTAINED
DOCUMENTS, EXCUSE ME, THAT AN
ASSOCIATE OF RUDY GIULIANI HAS
ASSISTED HIM IN HIS
REPRESENTATION OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP. THAT GIULIANI LIKELY
SPOKE WITH SECRETARY POMPEO
ABOUT UKRAINE MATTERS EVEN
EARLIER THAN PREVIOUSLY
UNDERSTOOD. ACCORDING TO
DOCUMENTS OBTAINED, MR. GIULIANI
WROTE IN EARLY FEBRUARY 2019
THAT HE APPARENTLY SPOKE WITH
SECRETARY POMPEO ABOUT THE
REMOVAL OF THE U. S. AMBASSADOR
IN UKRAINE, MARIA YOU BONDAGE
AND SHE WAS VIEWED AS AN
IMPEDIMENT
AND THEY ORCHESTRATED A SMEAR
CAMPAIGN AGAINST HER. HERE IS
WHAT WAS SAID ABOUT THIS JUST
LAST WEEK.
>> DO BELIEVE THIS IS TO GET HER
OUT OF POST WAS BECAUSE SHE WAS
IN THE WAY  IN THE EFFORT TO GET
THE GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE TO
ANNOUNCE INVESTIGATIONS TO JOE
BIDEN?
>> THAT WAS THE ONLY MOTIVATION
.
>> THAT WAS THE ONLY MOTIVATION.
>> THESE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
EMAILS  AND COMMUNICATIONS THAT
WE KNOW.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE MILK
NEGATIONS THAT WE KNOW TO EXIST
AND THERE ARE UNDOUBTEDLY MORE
INCLUDING FOR EXAMPLE
THE AMBASSADORS REQUEST FOR THE
STATE DEPARTMENT TO ISSUE A
STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF HER
AROUND THE TIME THAT MR.
GIULIANI WAS SPEAKING DIRECTLY
WITH SECRETARY POMPEO.
THAT STATEMENT NEVER CAME. THE
STATE DEPARTMENT HAS GATHERED
THESE
RECORDS AND THEY ARE READY TO BE
TURNED OVER PURSUANT TO A
SUBPOENA FROM THE SENATE. IT
WOULD NOT BE A TIME CONSUMING OR
LENGTHY PROCESS TO OBTAIN THEM
AND THEY ARE CLEARLY
IMPORTANT AND RELEVANT DOCUMENTS
TO THE PRESIDENTS SCHEME. IF WE
WANT THE FULL AND COMPLETE TRUTH
, WE NEED TO SEE THOSE EMAILS.
THE SENATE SHOULD ALSO SEEK A
THIRD ITEM THAT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS REFUSED TO
PROVIDE AND THAT IS MS OR
TAYLOR'S EXTRAORDINARY FIRST
PERSON DIPLOMATIC CABLE TO
SECRETARY POMPEO'S DATED AUGUST
29 AND SENT AT THE
RECOMMENDATION OF THE NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR, JUMBLE. IN
WHICH MS OR TAYLOR'S TRANSLATE
OBJECTED TO THE WITHHOLDING OF
MILITARY AID FROM UKRAINE. IS A
BATTERED TAYLOR RECOUNTED IN HIS
DEPOSITION.
>> YOUR THE END OF INVESTOR
BULLETINS  VISIT, I ASKED FOR A
MEETING PRIVATELY IN WHICH I
EXPRESSED TO HIM MY SERIOUS
CONCERN ABOUT THE WITHHOLDING OF
MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE
WHILE THE UKRAINIANS WERE
DEFENDING THEIR COUNTRY FOR
RUSSIAN AGGRESSION. MS REPORT
AND RECOMMENDED THAT I SEND THE
FIRST PERSON CABLE TO SECRETARY
POMPEO
DIRECTLY RELATING MY CONCERNS. I
WROTE AND TRANSMITTED SUCH A
CABLE ON AUGUST 29 DESCRIBING
THE FOLLY I SAW HIM WITHHOLDING
MILITARY AID TO UKRAINE IN TIME
WHEN HOSTILITY WAS STILL ACTIVE
IN THE EAST AND RUSSIA WAS
WATCHING CLOSELY TO GAUGE THE
LEVEL OF SUPPORT FOR THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT.
THE RUSSIANS AS I SAID WOULD
LOVE TO SEE THE HUMILIATION OF
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY AT
THE HANDS OF THE AMERICANS.  I
TOLD THE SECRETARY THAT I COULD
NOT AND WOULD NOT DEFEND SUCH A
POLICY. ALTHOUGH I RECEIVED NO
SPECIFIC RESPONSE, I HEARD THAT
SOON THEREAFTER THAT THERE IS A
CABLE WITH HIM TO THE MEETING
FOCUSED
ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE.
>> WHILE WE KNOW THAT THE CABLE
WAS RECEIVED, WE DID NOT KNOW
WHETHER OR HOW THE STATE
DEPARTMENT RESPONDED. NOR DO WE
KNOW IF THE STATE DEPARTMENT
POSSESSES ANY OTHER INTERNAL
RECORDS RELATING TO THIS CABLE.
THIS CABLE IS VITAL FOR THREE
REASONS. FIRST, IT DEMONSTRATES
THE HARM THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
DID TO OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
WHEN HE USED FOREIGN POLICY AS
AN INSTRUMENT OF HIS OWN
PERSONAL POLITICAL GAIN. SECOND,
ON THE SAME DAY THE CABLE WAS
SENT, PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY SENIOR EIGHT  SAID THAT
HE WAS VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
HOLD ON MILITARY ASSISTANCE. HE
ADDED THAT THE UKRAINIANS WERE
DESPERATE
. IN OTHER WORDS, PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S EFFORT TO USE MILITARY
AID TO APPLY ADDITIONAL PRESSURE
ON UKRAINE WAS WORKING. FINALLY,
BASED ON REPORTING OF A NEW YORK
TIMES WE NOW KNOW WITHIN DAYS OF
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR SENDING THIS
CABLE, PRESIDENT TRUMP DISCUSSED
UKRAINIAN SECURITY WITH
SECRETARY POMPEO AND THE DEFENSE
SECRETARY AND NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR. THE INVESTIGATION
UNCOVERED TESTIMONY THAT
SECRETARY POMPEO BROUGHT
AMBASSADORS TAILORED TO THE
WHITE HOUSE AND PERHAPS DURING
THIS MEETING. IT WAS PERHAPS ALL
THREE OF THEM PLEADING WITH THE
PRESIDENT TO RESUME THE CRUCIAL
MILITARY AID. YET, THE PRESIDENT
REFUSED.
THIS BODY HAS A RIGHT TO SEE
INVESTOR TAYLOR'S CABLE AS WELL
AS THE OTHER STATE DEPARTMENT
RECORDS ADDRESSING THE OFFICIAL
RESPONSE TO IT. ALTHOUGH IT MAY
HAVE BEEN CLASSIFIED AT THE TIME
, THE STATE DEPARTMENT CAN NO
LONGER CLAIM THAT THE TOPIC OF
SECURITY ASSISTANCE REMAINS
CLASSIFIED TODAY
IN LIGHT OF THE PRESENT DECISION
TO DECLASSIFY HIS TWO TELEPHONE
CALLS WITH PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY AND MR. MULVANEY'S
PUBLIC STATEMENTS ABOUT SECURITY
ASSISTANCE. THE FOURTH CATEGORY
OF DOCUMENTS THAT THE SENATE
SHOULD SUBPOENA OUR
CONTEMPORANEOUS FIRST-PERSON
ACCOUNTS FROM STATE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS THAT ARE CAUGHT UP IN
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S SCHEME.
AND THIS IS AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
AND POLITICAL HOMES TO HELP
COMPLETE THE RECORD AND CLARIFY
HOW IT UNFOLDED AND HOW THE
UKRAINIANS REACTED. MR. KENT
WROTE THE MOST FOR AT LEAST FOUR
TIMES ACCORDING TO HIS
TESTIMONY. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
TOOK EXTENSIVE NOTES OF NEARLY
EVERY CONVERSATION HE HAD AND
SOME IN A LITTLE NOTEBOOK. DAVID
HOLMES, THE EMBASSY OFFICIAL IN
UKRAINE WAS A CONSISTENT
NOTETAKER OF IMPORTANT MEETINGS
WITH UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS.
>> DID YOU TAKE NOTES OF THIS
CONVERSATION  ON SEPTEMBER 1
WITH AMBASSADOR SOMEONE
?
>> I DID.
>> DID YOU TAKE NOTES RELATED TO
MOST OF THE CONVERSATIONS  IF
NOT ALL OF THEM THAT YOU ARE
CITED IN THE OPEN STATEMENT?
>> ALL OF THEM.
>> YOU ARE AWARE I PRESUME THAT
THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS NOT
PROVIDED THOSE NOTES TO THE
COMMITTEE, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> I AM AWARE.
>> WE WILL HAVE THE BENEFIT OF
REVIEWING THEM TO ASK THESE
QUESTIONS.
>> CORRECT. I UNDERSTAND THAT
THEY MAY BE COMING SOONER OR
LATER.
>> WE WOULD WELCOME THAT.
>> THE STATE DEPARTMENT NEVER
PRODUCED THOSE NOTES AND AS
ANOTHER EXAMPLE, DEPUTY
SECRETARY OR ASSISTANT SECRETARY
CAN'T TESTIFIED ABOUT A KEY
DOCUMENT THAT HE DRAFTED ON
AUGUST 16 DESCRIBING HIS CONCERN
THAT THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
WAS ATTEMPTING TO PRESSURE
UKRAINE INTO OPENING POLITICALLY
MOTIVATED INVESTIGATIONS.
>> I WOULD LET'S START WITH YOU,
MR. KENT.  AND YOUR TESTIMONY,
YOU SAID THAT IT BECAME CLEAR TO
ME THAT GIULIANI'S EFFORTS TAKE
GET VERTICALLY MOTIVATED
INVESTIGATIONS WERE NOW
INFECTING U. S. ENGAGEMENT WITH
UKRAINE LEVERAGING THE DESIRE
FOR A WHITE HOUSE MEETING. DID
YOU ACTUALLY WRITE A MEMO
DOCUMENTING YOUR CONCERNS
THAT THERE WAS AN EFFORT
UNDERWAY TO PRESSURE UKRAINE TO
OPEN AN INVESTIGATION TO BENEFIT
PRESIDENT TRUMP?
>> YES, MA'AM. I WROTE A MEMO TO
THE FILE IN AUGUST 16.
>> WE DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO THE
MEMO, DO WE?
>> I SUBMITTED IT SO TO THE
SUBPOENA.
>> WE HAVE NOT RECEIVED ONE
PIECE OF PAPER FROM THE STATE
DEPARTMENT RELATIVE TO THIS
INVESTIGATION.
>> DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY
CAN'T  ALSO MEMORIALIZED A
SEPTEMBER 15 CONVERSATION AT
WHICH AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
DESCRIBED A UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL
ACCUSING AMERICA OF HYPOCRISY
FOR ADVISING PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY AGAINST INVESTIGATING
A PRIOR UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT.
THEY DID NOT DESCRIBE THAT
DURING THE TESTIMONY
AND IT COMES AFTER VOLKER MADE
THE POINT
AND THEY HAD IT UNDER PRESIDENT
TRUMAN AND OPEN INVESTIGATIONS.
HE DIDN'T THINK IT WAS
APPROPRIATE AND THEN
YOU MEAN THE TYPE OF
INVESTIGATIONS YOU ARE PUSHING
FOR US TO DO ON BY AND CLINTON.
THE CONVERSATION MAKES CLEAR THE
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS UNDERSTOOD
THE CORRUPT NATURE OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S REQUEST AND THEREFORE
DOUBTED AMERICAN CREDIBILITY ON
ANTICORRUPTION MEASURES. RECORDS
OF THESE CONVERSATIONS AND OTHER
NOTES AND MEMORANDUMS BY SENIOR
AMERICAN OFFICIALS IN UKRAINE
WOULD FLUSH OUT AND HELP
COMPLETE THE RECORD FOR THE
FIRST ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT.
THEY WOULD TELL THE WHOLE TRUTH
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND TO
THIS BODY. YOU SHOULD REQUIRE
THE STATE DEPARTMENT TO PROVIDE
THEM. TO SUMMARIZE, THE SENATE
SHOULD ISSUE THE SUBPOENA
PROPOSED AND THE AMENDMENT
REQUIRING THE STATE DEPARTMENT
TO TURN OVER RELEVANT MESSAGES
AND
WHAT'S APP MESSAGES AND EMAILS
AND DEMONIC  CABLES AND NOTES.
THESE DOCUMENTS ARE REQUIRED BY
THE CONSTITUTION TO HOLD.
THEY BEGRUDGINGLY AND SLOWLY
PRODUCED AN EXTREMIST WILL SET
OF MATERIALS. AND HAS INSISTED
ON A PLANE HEAVY AND DUBIOUS
REDUCTIONS. PRIOR LAWSUITS FILED
BY THE PARTIES CANNOT SERVE AS A
CREDIBLE ALTERNATIVE.
FOR CREDIBLE OVERSIGHT. THE
STILL ALARMING THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS PRODUCED MORE
DOCUMENTS, PURSUANT TO THE
FEDERAL OFFICE OF INFORMATION
ACT LAWSUIT, BY PRIVATE CITIZENS
AND ENTITIES
AND CONGRESSIONAL SUBPOENAS.
FINALLY, AS WE ALL KNOW,
LITIGATION WILL TAKE AN
EXTREMELY LONG TIME. LIKELY,
YEARS. NOT WEEKS OR MONTHS.
WHILE THE MISCONDUCT OF THIS
PRESIDENT REQUIRES IMMEDIATE
ATTENTION. THE MISCONDUCT OF
THIS PRESIDENT
REQUIRES IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. IF
THIS BODY IS TRULY COMMITTED TO
A FAIR TRIAL. IT CANNOT LET THE
PRESIDENT PLAY A GAME OF
KEEPAWAY. AND DICTATE WHAT
EVIDENCE THE SENSORS CAN AND
CANNOT SEE
BURIED ON HIS GUILT OR
INNOCENCE. THIS BODY CANNOT
PERMIT HIM TO BURY ALL OF THE
EVIDENCE WHILE DISINGENUOUSLY
INSISTING ON LAWSUITS THAT HE
DOES NOT ACTUALLY THINK WE CAN
FILE. ONES THAT HE KNOWS, WILL
NOT BE RESOLVED UNTIL AFTER THE
ELECTION THAT HE IS TRYING TO
CHEAT, TO WIN.
INSTEAD, TO HONOR YOUR OATH TO
DO IMPARTIAL JUSTICE. WE URGE
EACH SENATOR TO SUPPORT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT. THAT SUBPOENA
SHOULD BE ISSUED NOW. AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE TRIAL, RATHER
THAN AT THE END. SO THAT THESE
DOCUMENTS CAN BE REVIEWED, AND
THEIR IMPORTANCE BE WEIGHED, BY
THE PARTIES, THE SENATE, AND BY
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. THAT IS HOW
THINGS WORK, IN EVERY COURTROOM
IN THE NATION. AND IS HOW THEY
SHOULD WORK HERE, ESPECIALLY
BECAUSE THE STATE, AS YOU WILL
KNOW,
WERE SELECT FIVE. THE TRUTH IS
THERE. FACTS ARE STUBBORN
THINGS. THE PRESIDENT IS TRY TO
HIDE IT. THIS BODY SHOULD NOT
SURRENDER TO HIS OBSTRUCTION. BY
REFUSING TO DEMAND A FULL
RECORD. THAT IS WHERE THE HOUSE
MANAGERS SUPPORT THIS AMENDMENT.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, THE HOUSE
MANAGERS RESERVE THE BALANCE OF
OUR TIME.
>> AND MR. CIPOLLONE .
>> THANK YOU MR. CHIEF JUSTICE.
IN THE INTEREST OF TIME, I WILL
NOT REPEAT ALL OF THE ARGUMENTS
THAT WE HAVE MADE ALREADY, WITH
RESPECT TO THESE MOTIONS. I
WOULD SAY ONE THING BEFORE TURN
IT OVER TO MY COCOUNSEL. MR.
ADAM SCHIFF CAME HERE AND SAID,
HE IS NOT ASKING YOU TO DO
SOMETHING HE WOULD NOT DO FOR
HIMSELF. HOUSE MANAGER SAID, WE
ARE NOT ASKING YOU TO DO OUR
JOBS FOR US. MR. ADAM SCHIFF
CAME UP AND SAID, I CALL
AMBASSADOR BOLTON. REMEMBER PAUL
HARVEY? IT IS TIME FOR THE REST
OF THE STORY. A DO NOT SUBPOENA
AMBASSADOR BOLTON IN THE HOUSE.
I HAVE A LETTER HERE  FROM THE
LAWYER OF AMBASSADOR BOLTON. THE
SAME LAWYER  THAT CHARLIE
KUPPERMAN HIRED. DATED NOVEMBER
8. A RIGHT OF COUNSEL TO DR.
CHARLES KUPPERMAN AND AMBASSADOR
BOLTON. IN RESPONSE  TO THE
LETTER OF NOVEMBER 5, FROM
CHAIRMAN ADAM SCHIFF AND ACTING
HOUSE CHAIR. WITHDRAWING THE
SUBPOENA TO DUCK KUPPERMAN. I
MENTIONED IT EARLIER. AND TO
RECENT PUBLISHED REPORTS,
ANNOUNCING THAT THE HOUSE CHAIR
DID NOT INTEND TO ISSUE A
SUBPOENA TO AMBASSADOR BOLTON.
HE GOES ON AND SAYS, WE ARE
DISMAYED THAT THE COMMITTEE,
HAVE CHOSEN NOT TO JOIN US, IN
SEEKING RESOLUTION FROM THE
JUDICIAL BRANCH OF THIS MORE
MENTAL CONSTITUTIONAL QUESTION.
HE ENDS THE LETTER BY SAYING, IF
THE HOUSE CHOOSES NOT TO PURSUE
FOR A SUBPOENA, THE TESTIMONY OF
DR. KUPPERMAN AND AMBASSADOR
BOLTON , LET THE RECORD BE
CLEAR. THAT IS THE HOUSES
DECISION. AND THEY MADE THAT
DECISION. THE NEVER SUBPOENAED
AMBASSADOR BOLTON . THE DO NOT
TO CALL HIM IN THE HOUSE. AND
THEY WITHDREW THE SUBPOENA FOR
CHARLES KUPPERMAN, BEFORE THE
JUDGE COULD RULE. AND ASKED THAT
THE CASE BE COMMITTED. AND OF
THE COME HERE, AND ASK YOU TO
ISSUE A SUBPOENA FOR JOHN
BOLTON. IT IS NOT RIGHT. TO
YIELD THE REMAINDER OF MY TIME
TO MR. SEKULOW.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE, FACTS ARE STUBBORN
THING. I WILL GIVE YOU SOME
FACTS. FROM THE TRANSCRIPTS.
TRAN07 TESTIFIED THAT THE
PRESIDENT DID NOT TIE AID
AND IT WAS BASED ON HIS OWN
>> EMISSION. AND CONNECTED TO
ANY CONVERSATION WITH THE
PRESIDENT. HERE IS THE QUESTION.
WHAT ABOUT THE AID? AMBASSADOR
FOLKERTS SAID IT WAS TIED ASPECT
EIGHT WAS NOT TIED. ANSWER, I
DID NOT SAY THEY WERE
CONCLUSIVELY TIED EITHER. I
SAID, I WAS PRESUMING IT.
QUESTION, OKAY. THE PRESIDENT
NEVER TOLD YOU THEY WERE TIED?
ANSWER, THAT IS CORRECT.
QUESTION:YOUR TESTIMONY IS
CONSISTENT. THE PRESIDENT DID
NOT TIE INVESTIGATION AID TO
INVESTIGATION? ANSWER:THAT IS
CORRECT.
AND  AMBASSADOR GORDON SONDLAND
TESTIFIED THAT HE ASKED
PRESIDENT TRUMP DARKLY ABOUT
THESE ISSUES. THE PRESIDENT
ESPECIALLY TOLD HIM HE SOMEONE
ANYTHING FROM UKRAINE. I WANT
NOTHING. I WANT NOTHING. I WANT
NO QUID PRO QUO. TELL  VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY TO DO THE RIGHT THING.
SIMILAR COMMENTS WERE MADE TO
SIMILAR JOHNSON. THOSE ARE THE
FACTS. THAT IS THE FACTS. NOBODY
IS ABOVE THE LAW. HERE IS THE
LAW. AS EVERY MEMBER OF CONGRESS
KNOWS, UNDOUBTEDLY AWARE,
SEPARATE FROM STATE PRIVILEGES
IS THE PRESIDENTIAL MEDICATION
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE, MEDICATIONS
A PERFORMANCE OF A PRESIDENT %
ABILITY. THE PRESIDENTIAL
COMMUNICATION PRIVILEGE OF
CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN. COURTS
HAVE RECOGNIZED A GREAT PUBLIC
INTEREST IN PRESERVING THE
CONFIDENTIALITY OF CONVERSATIONS
THAT TAKE PLACE WITH THE
PRESIDENT'S PERFORMANCE OF
OFFICIAL DUTIES BECAUSE SUCH
CONFIDENTIALITY IS NEEDED TO
PROTECT THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE
EXECUTIVE DECISION-MAKING
PROCESS. AND RAISED SEAL CASES
DECIDED
IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
COURT OF APPEALS. THE SUPREME
COURT FOUND THE PRIVILEGE
NECESSARY TO GUARANTEE THE
CANDOR OF PRESIDENTS TO ADVISORS
AND TO PROVIDE A PRESIDENT AND
THOSE WHO ASSIST HIM, WITH
FREEDOM TO EXPLORE ALTERNATIVES.
IN THE PROCESS OF ULTIMATELY
SHAPING POLICY TO MAKE DECISIONS
AND TO DO SO IN A WAY THAT MANY
WOULD BE UNWILLING TO EXPRESS
EXCEPT IN PRIVATE. FOR THESE
REASONS, PRESIDENTIAL
CONVERSATIONS ARE PRESUMPTIVELY
PRIVILEGED. THERE IS SOMETHING
ELSE ABOUT THIS PRIVILEGE.
COMMUNICATIONS MADE BY
PRESIDENTIAL ADVISORS, AGAIN,
QUOTING COURT. BY THE WAY, WE
ARE LAWSUITS. WILL YOUR
LAWSUITS.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE
IMPEACHMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES, NEWLY
ELECTED. AND THE MEMBERS AND
MANAGERS ARE COMPLAINING ABOUT
LAWYER LAWSUITS. THE
CONSTITUTION ALLOWS LAWYER
LAWSUITS. IT IS DISRESPECTED THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES TO SAY THAT IN THE SAME
RIGHTS. LAWYER LAWSUITS. HERE IS
THE LAW. COMMUNICATIONS MADE BY
PRESIDENTIAL ADVISORS IN THE
COURSE OF PREPARING ADVISED TO
THE PRESIDENT
, COME UNDER PRESIDENTIAL
COMMUNICATIONS PRIVILEGE. EVEN
WHEN THE COMMUNIATIONS ARE NOT
MADE DIRECTLY TO THE PRESIDENT.
EVEN WHEN THEY ARE NOT MADE
DIRECTLY TO THE PRESIDENT.
ADVISOR TO ADVISOR. GIVEN THE
NEED TO PROVIDE SUFFICIENT
ELBOWROOM FOR ADVISORS TO OBTAIN
INFORMATION FROM ALL
KNOWLEDGEABLE SOURCES. THE
PRIVILEGE MUST APPLY BOTH TO
MEDICATIONS, WHICH THIS ADVISORS
SOLICIT AND RECEIVE FROM OTHERS,
AS WELL AS THOSE THEY AUTHORIZE
THEMSELVES. THE PRIVILEGE MUST
ALSO EXTEND TO COMMUNICATIONS
AUTHORED OR RECEIVED IN RESPONSE
TO SOLICITATIONS MEMBERS OF A
PRESIDENTIAL ADVISORY STAFF. IN
MANY INSTANCES, ADVISORS MUST
RELY ON THEIR STAFFS TO
INVESTIGATE AN ISSUE AND
FORMULATE ADVISED GIVEN TO THE
PRESIDENT.
LAWSUITS. THE CONSTITUTION.
A DANGEROUS MOMENT FOR AMERICA
WHEN AND IMPEACHMENT OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
IS BEING RUSHED THROUGH BECAUSE
OF LAWYER LAWSUITS. THE
CONSTITUTION ALLOWS THIS, IF
NECESSARY. THE CONSTITUTION
DEMANDS IT, IF NECESSARY. THANK
YOU A CHIEF JUSTICE.
13 MINUTES FOR A BOTTLE, MR.
ADAM SCHIFF.
>> THANK YOU CHIEF JUSTICE. WILL
RESPOND TO SOME OF MY COLLEAGUES
POINTS, IF I CAN. FIRST COUNSEL
SAID THE HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO
CALL JOHN BOLTON. THE HOUSE DO
NOT SEE HIS TESTIMONY DURING THE
INVESTIGATION. FOR CIVIL, WE
DID. INVITED JOHN BOLTON TO
TESTIFY. YOU KNOW WHAT HE TOLD
US? I AM NOT COMING AND IF YOU
SUBPOENA ME I WILL SEE YOU. THAT
WAS HIS ANSWER. I WILL SEE YOU.
STAPLETON IS REPRESENTED BY THE
SAME LAWYER, WHO REPRESENTS DR.
KUPPERMAN WHO DID TO US WHEN HE
WAS SUBPOENAED. WE KNOW THAT
JOHN BOLTON WOULD MAKE GOOD ON
HIS THREAT. MR. SEKULOW SAID
SOMETHING ABOUT LAWYER LAWSUITS.
HAVE TO CONFESS I WAS NOT
FOLLOWING THE ARGUMENT.
SOMETHING ABOUT LAWYER LAWSUITS.
WE ARE AGAINST LAWYER LAWSUITS.
I DO NOT KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS. I
CAN TELL YOU THIS. THE TRUMP
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS IN COURT
IN THAT CASE AND OTHER CASES
ARGUING CONGRESS CANNOT GO TO
COURT TO ENFORCE ITS SUBPOENAS.
SO WHEN THEY SAY, SOMETHING
ABOUT LAWYER LAWSUITS, AND THEY
SAY, THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH
THE HOUSE SUING TO GET THESE
WITNESSES TO SHOW UP AND THEY
SHOULD HAVE SUED TO GET THEM TO
SHOW UP, THEIR OWN LAWYERS ARE
IN COURT SAYING THE HOUSE HAS NO
SUCH RIGHT. THEY ARE IN COURT
SAYING, YOU CANNOT HAVE YOUR
LAWSUITS. THAT ARGUMENT CANNOT
BE MADE IN BOTH DIRECTIONS.
WHAT'S MORE, IN THE KUPPERMAN
LITIGATION THIS I'M SORRY, IN
THE McGANN LITIGATION, WHICH
TESTED THE SAME BOGUS THEORY OF
ABSOLUTE IMMUNITY. IN THAT
LAWSUIT, ONCE AGAIN INVOLVING
THE PRESIDENT'S LAWYER, DON
McGANN, THE ONE WHO WAS TOLD TO
FIRE SPECIAL COUNSEL AND LIED
ABOUT IT. THAT LAWSUIT. TO GET
HIS TESTIMONY. JUDGE JACKSON
RULED ON THE VERY RECENTLY. WHEN
THEY MADE THE SAME BOGUS CLAIM,
HE IS ABSOLUTELY IMMUNE FROM
SHOWING UP. THE JUDGE SAID, THAT
IS NONSENSE. THERE IS NO SUPPORT
FOR THAT IN THE CONSTITUTION.
NOT IN CASE LAW. THE JUDGE SAID
SOMETHING MORE THAT WAS
INTERESTING. BECAUSE WHAT WE
URGE JOHN BOLTON'S LAWYER, IS
YOU DO NOT NEED TO FILE A
LAWSUIT. DR. KUPPERMAN, YOU DO
NOT NEED TO FILE A LAWSUIT.
THERE IS ONE ALREADY FILED
INVOLVING DON McGANN THAT IS
ABOUT TO BE DECIDED. UNLESS YOUR
REAL PURPOSE IS DELAY. UNLESS
YOUR REAL PURPOSE IS TO AVOID
TESTIMONY AND YOU JUST WISH TO
GIVE DEPRESSION OF A WILLINGNESS
TO COME FORWARD. AND WITH THE
COURT'S BLESSING, IF THAT IS
TRUE, AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE
McGANN DECISION. OF COURSE, THEY
WERE NOT WILLING. BECAUSE THEY
DID NOT WANT TO TESTIFY. FOR
WHATEVER REASON, JOHN BOLTON IS
NOW WILLING TO TESTIFY. I DO NOT
KNOW WHEN THAT IS. MAYBE IT IS
BECAUSE HE HAS A BOOK COMING
OUT. MAYBE IS IT WOULD BE HARD
TO EXPLAIN WHAT HE WAS UNWILLING
TO SHARE IMPORTANT INFORMATION
WITH THE SENATE. THAT HE CANNOT
SHOP FOR HOUSE DEPOSITION OR
INTERVIEW
BECAUSE HE WOULD NEED COURT
PERMISSION TO DO IT, BUT HE CAN
PUT IT INTO A BOOK. I DO NOT
KNOW. I CANNOT SPEAK TO HIS
MOTIVATION. HE IS WILLING TO
COME NOW. IF YOU ARE WILLING TO
HEAR HIM. BUT, OF COURSE, THEY
WERE NOT WILLING TO BE BOUND TO
THE COURT DECISION IN McGANN.
THE COURT SAID SOMETHING
INTERESTING. ONE OF THE
ARGUMENTS THEY HAD AND ONE OF
THE ARGUMENTS JOHN BOLTON'S
LAWYER WAS MAKING, ASKED WHAT
THEY NEEDED THEIR OWN SEPARATE
LITIGATION WAS JOHN BOLTON AND
DR. KUPPERMAN WERE NATIONALS
GRITTY PEOPLE. DON McGANN IS
JUST WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL.
CURRENTLY, YOU'VE NOTHING TO DO
WITH NATIONALS GRITTY THEY
CANNOT BE BOUND. THE JUDGE IN
THE DON McGANN CASE THAT IT
APPLIES TO NATIONAL SECURITY
STUFF ALSO. WE DO HAVE A COURT
DECISION. ONCE MORE, WE HAVE THE
HARRIET MYERS CASE AND THE
GEORGE W. BUSH ADMINISTRATION.
LIKEWISE, THE COURT MADE SHORT
SHRIFT OF THE CLAIM OF COMPLETE
UNITY. THE COMMENTS MADE ABOUT
FOLKERS TESTIMONY BY MR.
SEKULOW. WAS ALONG THESE LINES.
HE SAID THE PRESIDENT NEVER TOLD
HIM THAT THE MEETING WAS BEING
CONDITIONED ON UKRAINE DOING A
SHAM INVESTIGATION. CERTAINLY
THAT IS CASE CLOSED. UNLESS THE
PRESIDENT TOLD EVERYONE I WILL
TELL YOU NOW. AND I WILL TELL
YOU NOW. HE DID NOT TELL
EVERYONE. I GUESS IT IS CASE
CLOSED. DO YOU KNOW WHO THE
PRESIDENT TO TELL? AMONG OTHERS.
HE TOLD MICK MULVANEY. MICK
MULVANEY WENT ON NATIONAL
TELEVISION AND SAID YES, THEY
DISCUSSED IT. THIS
INVESTIGATION, THIS RUSSIAN
NARRATIVE. IT WAS NOT UKRAINE
THAT INTERVENED IN 2016. IT WAS
RUSSIA. I'M SORRY, WAS NOT
RUSSIA, IT WAS UKRAINE. THAT
BOGUS 2016 THREE. YES THEY
DISCUSSED IT. AND WENT REPORTER
SAID, YOU JUST DESCRIBED QUID
PRO QUO. HIS ANSWER WAS, YES.
GET USED TO IT. GET OVER IT. WE
DO IT ALL THE TIME. NOW, THEY
HAVE NOT THAT THEY WANT TO HEAR
FROM MICK MULVANEY. I WONDER
WHY. THE PRESIDENT DID SPEAK TO
MICK MULVANEY ABOUT IT. WOULD
YOU LIKE TO HEAR WHAT HE HAS TO
SAY? IF YOU WANT TO GET TO THE
BOTTOM OF IT, IF THERE REALLY
CHALLENGING THE FACTS THAT THE
PRESIDENT CONDITIONED $400
MILLION IN MILITARY AID FROM AN
ALLY AT WAR, IF MICK MULVANEY
HAS ALREADY SAID PUBLICLY THAT
HE TALKED TO THE PRESIDENT ABOUT
IT AND IS PART OF THE REASON
WHY, DON'T YOU THINK YOU SHOULD
HEAR FROM HIM? DON'T YOU THINK
IMPARTIAL JUSTICE REQUIRES YOU
TO HEAR FROM HIM? NOW, COUNSEL
ALSO REFERRED TO AMBASSADOR
GORDON SONDLAND
SAYING WELL, THE PRESIDENT,
THERE IS NO QUID PRO QUO.  AT
THE TIME, HE SAID TO AMBASSADOR
GORDON SONDLAND, NO QUID PRO QUO
. AND HE BECAME AWARE OF THE
WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINT.
REASONABLY, BY IS BACKED UP
ALONE.
THE PRESIDENT KNEW IT WOULD COME
TO LIGHT. ON THE ADVICE
APPARENTLY OF
THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN HISTORY,
THE WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINT WAS
WITHHELD FROM CONGRESS.
NONETHELESS, THE WHITE HOUSE WAS
AWARE OF THE COMPLAINT. YES,
THEY GOT CAUGHT. IN THE MIDST OF
BEING CAUGHT, WHAT DID HE SAY? A
FALSE EXCULPATORY A FANCY WAY OF
SAYING IT IS A PHONY ALIBI. NO
QUID PRO QUO. HE WAS ASKED THE
QUESTION. HE JUST BLURTED IT
OUT. THAT IS THE DEFENSE? THE
PRESIDENT DENIES IT? AND WHAT IS
MORE INTERESTING HE DID NOT TELL
YOU ABOUT THE OTHER HALF OF THE
CONVERSATION. WITH THE PRESIDENT
SAYS NO QUID PRO QUO. HE SAID NO
QUID PRO QUO,  BUT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY  NEEDS TO GO TO THE
MICROPHONE. AND HE SHOULD WANT
TO DO IT. WHICH IS THE
EQUIVALENT OF SAYING, NO QUID
PRO QUO EXCEPT A QUID PRO QUO
. AND HERE IS WHAT THE QUID PRO
QUO IS. HE SHOULD GO TO THE
FRONT AND WANT TO DO IT. THAT IS
THERE ALIBI?
AND HE DID NOT MENTION, AND YOU
WILL HEAR ABOUT IT DURING THE
TRIAL, IF WE HAVE A REAL TRIAL.
AND  AMBASSADOR GORDON SONDLAND
SAID,  WE ARE OFTEN ASKED WAS
THERE QUID PRO QUO? THE ANSWER
IS YES, THERE WAS A QUID PRO
QUO. THERE WAS AN ABSOLUTE QUID
PRO QUO. WHAT'S MORE, LIKE INTO
THE MILITARY AID, IT WAS A
SIMPLE TWO PLUS TWO. I WILL TELL
YOU SOMETHING, WE ARE NOT THE
ONLY PEOPLE WHO CAN ADD TWO PLUS
TWO. THERE ARE MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE WATCHING THIS WHO CAN ADD
TWO PLUS TWO ALSO. WITH THE
PRESIDENT TELLS HIS CHIEF OF
STAFF ROLLING OUT AID BECAUSE OF
THIS, AS THE CHIEF OF STAFF
ADMITTED, WITH THE PRESIDENT HAS
NO PLAUSIBLE EXPLANATION FOR
HOLDING UP EIGHT, THAT WE ALL
SUPPORTED AND VOTED ON IN A
BIPARTISAN WAY. HE HAS NO
EXPLANATION FOR IT. IN THE CALL
HE NEVER BRINGS UP CORRUPTION,
IT DOES NOT TAKE A GENIUS. IT
DOES NOT TO@TO ADD TWO PLUS TWO.
IT EQUALS 4. IN THIS CASE, IT
EQUALS GUILT.
NOW, YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE 16
HOURS TO ASK QUESTIONS. THAT IS
A LONG TIME TO ASK QUESTIONS.
WOULDN'T YOU LIKE TO BE ABLE TO
ASK ABOUT THE DOCUMENTS IN THE
60 HOURS? 16 HOURS. WHEN YOU
WANT TO SAY TO THE COUNSEL FOR
THE PRESIDENT, WHAT DID MICK
MULVANEY MEAN WHEN HE CAME OUT
SO AND SO IS AT SUCH AND SUCH?
WHAT IS YOUR EXPEDITION FOR
THAT? THAT SEEMS TO BE PRETTY
DAMNING EVIDENCE OF EXACTLY WITH
THE HOUSE THE SAYING. WHAT IS
YOUR EXPEDITION
? WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE ABLE TO
ASK ABOUT THE DOCUMENTS. OR ASK
MR. ADAM SCHIFF, WHAT ABOUT THIS
TEXT MESSAGE? DOESN'T THAT
SUGGEST THAT IS WHAT THE
PRESIDENT IS ARGUING? WOULD YOU
LIKE TO ASK ME THAT QUESTION? I
THINK YOU WOULD. I THINK YOU
SHOULD.
THE BACKWARDS WAY THE RESOLUTION
IS DRAFTED, YOU GET 16 HOURS TO
ASK WHAT DOCTORS YOU HAVE NEVER
SEEN. TO KNOW WHAT IS MORE? IF
YOU DO DECIDE AT THAT POINT,
AFTER IT IS OVER THAT YOU DO
WANT TO SEE THE DOCUMENTS AFTER
ALL, AND THE DOCTORS ARE
PRODUCED, YOU DO NOT GET ANOTHER
16 HOURS. YOU DO NOT GET 16
MINUTES. YOU DO NOT GET 16
SECONDS TO ASK. DESIGN ME SINCE
YOU? DOES IT MAKE ANY SENSE AT
ALL? I WILL TELL YOU SOMETHING I
WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. IT MAY BE IN
THE DOCUMENTS. YOU HAVE PROBABLY
HEARD ABOUT THE THREE AMIGOS. MY
COLLEAGUES MENTIONED TWO OF THE
THREE AMIGOS. AMIGO FOLK LORE
AND AMIGO SONDLAND. THESE ARE
TWO OF THE THREE PEOPLE THE
PRESIDENT BUT CHARGE OF UKRAINE
PUZZLED, THE FORMER SECRETARY OF
ENERGY, RICK PERRY IS THE THIRD.
WE KNOW THAT AMIGO AMBASSADOR
GORDON SONDLAND WAS IN THE LOOP
. AND WE KNOW FROM THE TESTIMONY
OF MASTER VOLKER
AND WHATSAPP, HE WAS IN THE
LOOP. WHAT ABOUT THE THIRD
AMIGO? WOULD YOU LIKE TO KNOW IF
THE THIRD AMIGO WAS IN THE LOOP?
AS MY COLLEAGUES HAVE EXPLAINED,
AND WE WILL GO TO THE THE PERMIT
OF ENERGY RECORDS, SURPRISINGLY,
WE DO NOT GET THOSE EITHER.
ANY COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OF THE
DEPARTMENT ESTATE IS COVERED BY
THIS AMENDMENT. THAT YOU THINK
THE DEPARTMENT
AND IN AND PEOPLE DESERVE TO
KNOW WITH A THIRD AMIGO NEW? I
WOULD LIKE TO KNOW.
I THINK YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO
ASK IN YOUR 16 HOURS. AT THE END
OF THE DAY, I GUESS I WILL
FINISH WITH SOMETHING MR.
SEKULOW SAID. IT IS A DANGEROUS
MOMENT. BECAUSE WE ARE TRYING TO
RUSH THROUGH THIS SOMEHOW. IT IS
A DANGEROUS MOMENT. WE ARE NOT
TRY TO RUSH THROUGH THIS TRIAL.
WE TRY TO HAVE A REAL TRIAL
HERE. IS THE PRESIDENT THAT IS
TRY TO RUSH THROUGH THIS. I HAVE
TO TELL YOU, WHATEVER YOU DECIDE
HERE MAYBE IT WAS A WASTE OF
BREATH AND MAYBE IT IS ALREADY
DECIDED. WHATEVER YOU DECIDE I
DO NOT TO THE NEXT PRESIDENT
WILL BE. MAYBE TO SOMEONE IN
THIS CHAMBER. I GUARANTEE YOU
THIS. WHOEVER THE NEXT PRESIDENT
IS, WHETHER THEY DID SOMETHING
RIGHT OR WRONG, THERE IS GOING
TO COME A TIME, WHERE YOU END
THIS BODY WILL WANT TO SUBPOENA
THAT PRESIDENT AND THE
ADMINISTRATION. YOU WILL WANT TO
GET TO THE BOTTOM OF SERIOUS
ALLEGATIONS. ARE YOU PREPARED TO
SAY THAT PRESIDENT CAN SIMPLY
SAY I WILL FIGHT ALL SUBPOENAS?
ARE YOU PREPARED TO SAY AND
EXCEPT THE PRESIDENT TO SAY HAVE
ABSOLUTE IMMUNITY. YOU WANT ME
TO TESTIFY? NO, NO, I'VE
ABSOLUTE IMMUNITY. YOU CAN
SUBPOENA ME ALL YOU WOULD LIKE.
I WILL SEE YOU IN COURT. AND WE
GET TO COURT, I WILL TELL YOU,
YOU CANNOT SEE ME IN COURT.
ARE YOU PREPARED FOR THAT? THAT
IS WHAT THE FUTURE LOOKS LIKE.
DO NOT THINK THIS IS THE LAST
PRESIDENT, IF YOU ALLOW THIS TO
HAPPEN, THAT WILL ALLOW THIS TO
TAKE PLACE.
>> I YELLED BACK I YIELD BACK.
>> MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> I TABLE THE AMENDMENT. THE
QUESTION IS ON THE MOTION TO
TABLE.IS THERE A SUFFICIENT
SECOND? THERE IS.CLERK WILL CALL
THE ROLL.
>> MR. ALEXANDER. , AND.
>> I WAS BALDWIN.
>> NO.
>> MR. BENNETT.
>> MRS. BLACKBURN. MR.
BLUMENTHAL. MR. WANT. MR.
BOOKER.
MR. BROZMAN. MR. BRAUN. MR.
BROWN. MR. BORER.
MS. CANTWELL.
MR. CARTON. MR. CARPER. MR.
CASEY. MR. CASSIDY.
MS. COLLINS. MR. COOTS. MR.
CORNYN.
MR. COTTON. MR. KRAMER. MR.
CORPORAL. MR. CRUZ.
MR. DEAN. MISSED THE COURSE. MR.
DURBIN. MR. ENZI.
MISS OUR NEXT. MRS. FEINSTEIN.
MRS. FISHER. MR. GARDNER.
MRS. GILLIBRAND. MR. GRAHAM. MR.
GRASSLEY. CHRIS HARRIS.
MISS HASSAN. MR. HOLLY. MR.
HEINRICH.
MR. HOVEN. MRS. HYDE SMITH. MR.
IMHOFF.
MR. JOHNSON. MR. JONES. MR.
KANE. MR. KENNEDY.
MR. KING. MISS KLOBUCHAR. MR.
LANGFORD. MR. LEAHY.
MR. LEE. MRS. LEFFLER. MR.
MANSION. MR. MARKEY.
MR. McCONNELL. MYSTIC SALLY. MR.
MENENDEZ. MR.
MARKLEY. MR. MORAN. MISS
MARKOWSKI. MR. MURPHY.
MRS. MURRAY. MR. PAUL. MR.
PURDUE. MR. PETERS.
MR. PORTMAN. MR. REED.
MR. ROBERTS. MR. ROMNEY. MS.
ROSEN. MR.
ROUNDS. MR. RUBIO. MR. SANDERS.
MR. SASS. MR. SHOTS. MR. SCHUMER
. MR. SCOTT
OF FLORIDA.
MR. SCOTT OF SOUTH CAROLINA. MR.
SHAHEEN. MR. SHELBY.
MISS CINEMA. MRS. SMITH.
MR. SULLIVAN.
MR. TESTER. MR. SOON. MR. TILLIS
. MR. TOOMEY.
MR. UDALL. MR. VAN HOLLEN. MR.
WARNER. MISS WARREN
. ESTHER WHITE HOUSE.
MR. WICKER. MR. WYDEN. MR.
YOUNG.
>> IS THERE ANYONE WISHING TO
VOTE OR CHANGE THEIR VOTE? IF
NOT, 21 AYE  53-47 NAY
. THE MOTION TO TABLE IS AGREED
TO.
THE DEMOCRATIC LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE I SEND AN
AMENDMENT TO THE DESK TO
SUBPOENA DESK MANAGEMENT
ARGUMENTS. I ASK THAT IT BE
READ.
>> THE CLERK WILL READ THE
AMENDMENT.
>> THE SENATOR FOR NEW YORK MR.
SCHAMA
THE SUM OF 1286. AT THE
APPROPRIATE PLACE IN THE
RESULTING CLAUSE, INSERT THE
FOLLOWING. SECTION,
NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER
PROVISION OF THIS RESOLUTION
PURSUANT TO RULE FIVE AND SIX
AND THE RULES OF PROCEDURE AND
PRACTICE. IN THE SENATE, WHEN
SITTING ON IMPEACHMENT TRIAL.
ONE, THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE
UNITED STATES THROUGH SECRETARY
OF THE SENATE, SHALL ISSUE A
SUBPOENA TO THE ACTING DIRECTOR
OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET, COMMANDING HIM TO
PRODUCE FOR THE TIME PERIOD FROM
JANUARY 1, 2019 TO THE PRESENT,
ALL DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATION AND
OTHER RECORDS WITHIN THE
POSSESSION, CUSTODY OR CONTROL
OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET, REFERRING OR RELATING
TO, LETTER A, ACTUAL OR
POTENTIAL SUSPENSION,
WITHHOLDING, DELAYING, FREEZING
OR RELEASING OF THE UNITED
STATES FOREIGN ASSISTANCE,
MILITARY ASSISTANCE OR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE OF ANY KIND TO
UKRAINE, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO THE UKRAINE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE. REFERRED
TO IN THIS SECTION AS USA I, AND
FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING,
REFERRED TO IN THIS SECTION AS
FMF, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, ONE, COMMUNICATIONS AMONG,
BETWEEN OR REFERRING TO DIRECTOR
MICHAEL JOHN MICK MULVANEY,
ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT,
ROBERT BLAIR, ACTING DIRECTOR
RUSSELL BLOCK, ASSOCIATE
DIRECTOR MICHAEL DUFFEY OR ANY
OTHER OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET EMPLOYEE.
TWO. COMMUNIATIONS RELATED TO
REQUEST BY PRESIDENT TRUMP FOR
INFORMATION ABOUT UKRAINE
SECURITY OR MILITARY ASSISTANCE
IN RESPONSES TO THOSE REQUEST.
THREE. COMMUNICATIONS  RELATED
TO CONCERNS  RAISED BY ANY
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
EMPLOYEE, RELATED TO LEGALITY OF
ANY HOLD ON FOR ASSISTANCE,
MILITARY ASSISTANCE OR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE. FOR.
COMMUNICATIONS  INTO THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, REGARDING A
HOLD OR BLOCK  A CONGRESSIONAL
NOTIFICATIONS REGARDING THE
RELEASE OF FMF FUNDS TO UKRAINE.
FIVE. COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN
ONE. OFFICIALS AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO UNDER
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, AND TO.
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR MICHAEL
DUFFEY, DEBATED ASSOCIATE
DIRECTOR MARK SANDY OR ANY OTHER
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT OF OFFICE
BUDGET EMPLOYEE.
6. ALL DRAFT AND FINAL VERSIONS
OF THE AUGUST 7, 2019 MEMORANDUM
, PREPARED BY THE NATIONAL
SECURITY DIVISION, INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS DIVISION AND OFFICE OF
GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET ABOUT THE
RELEASE A FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE, OR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE. 7
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT
KNOWLEDGE PRIOR TO AUGUST 28,
2019, OF ANY ACTUAL OR POTENTIAL
SUSPENSION
, WITHHOLDING, DELAYING,
FREEZING OR RELEASING OF UNITED
STATES FOREIGN ASSISTANCE,
MILITARY ASSISTANCE OR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE, TO UKRAINE.
INCLUDING ALL MEETINGS, CALLS OR
OTHER ENGAGEMENTS, WITH
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS, REGARDING
POTENTIAL OR ACTUAL SUSPENSIONS,
HOLDS OR DELAYS IN THE UNITED
STATES ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE. B.
COMMUNICATIONS, ADVICE, COUNSEL,
APPROVAL OR CONCURRENCE PROVIDED
BY ANY EMPLOYEE IN THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET, REGARDING
THE ACTUAL OR POTENTIAL
SUSPENSION, WITHHOLD, DELETE
FREEZING OR RELEASING OF
SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO CRANE,
INCLUDING LEGALITY UNDER
EMPOWERMENT CONTROL ACT. C.
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR MICHAEL
DUFFEY TAKING OVER DUTIES
RELATING TO APPORTIONMENT OF YOU
AI M F DEBBIE ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR
MARK SANDY OR ANY OTHER OFFICE
OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
EMPLOYEE. D. ALL MEETINGS
RELATED TO THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO
INTERAGENCY MEETINGS ON JULY 18,
2019.
JULY 23, 2019. JULY 26, 2019.
JULY 31, 2019. INCLUDING ANY
DIRECTIONS PROVIDED TO STAFF
PARTICIPATING IN THE MEETING.
AND ANY READOUTS FROM THOSE
MEETINGS.
E. THE DECISION ANNOUNCED ON OR
ABOUT SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 TO
RELEASE APPROPRIATED FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE, MILITARY ASSISTANCE
OR SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE. INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY NOTES IN
MEMORANDA, DOCUMENTATION OR
CORRESPONDENCE RELATED TO THE
DECISION. F
. ALL DRAFT AND FINAL VERSIONS
AND TALKING POINTS RELATED TO
THE WITHHOLDING OR RELEASE OF
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE, MILITARY
ASSISTANCE OR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE, INCLUDING
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, RELATING
TO CONCERNS ABOUT THE ACCURACY
OF THE TALKING POINTS AND G.
ALL MEETING THE CALLS BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND THE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE, INCLUDING
DOCUMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS AND
OTHER RECORDS, RELATED TO THE
SCHEDULING OF, PREPARATIONS FOR
A FOLLOW-UP FOR THE PRESIDENT
APRIL 21 AND JULY 25, 2019
TELEPHONE CALLS. AS WELL AS THE
PRESIDENT CENTER 25, MEETING
WITH THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE IN
NEW YORK. AND TWO. SERGEANT AT
ARMS IS AUTHORIZED TO UTILIZE
THE SERVICES OF DEPUTY SERGEANT
AT ARMS OR ANY OTHER EMPLOYEE OF
THE SENATE IN SERVING THE
SUBPOENA, AUTHORIZED TO BE
ISSUED BY THE SECTION.
>> MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> A SCHEDULE HE NOTES. I
SUGGEST WE GO AHEAD AND GET TO
THE DEBATE AND VOTE BEFORE WE
TAKE A 30 MINUTE RECESS FOR
DINNER. I WOULD REMIND EVERYONE
THAT I WILL BE MOVING TO TABLE
THE AMENDMENT. IT IS IMPORTANT
TO REMEMBER THAT THOUGH THE
EVIDENCE AND WITNESSES ARE
ADDRESSED IN THE UNDERLYING
RESOLUTION.
>> THE AMENDMENT IS ARGUABLE
THAT THE PARTIES FOR 2 HOURS.
EQUALLY DIVIDED. MANAGER ADAM
SCHIFF, ARE YOU A PROPONENT OR
OPPONENT OF THE MOTION?
>> PROPONENT.
>> AND MR. CIPOLLONE, PROPONENT
OR OPPONENT? ADAM SCHIFF, YOU
CAN RESERVE TIME FOR REBUTTAL.
>> BEFORE I BEGIN MR. CHIEF
JUSTICE, THE HOUSE MANAGERS WILL
RESERVE THE BALANCE OF OUR TIME
TO RESPOND TO THE COUNSEL OF THE
PRESIDENT. MR. CHIEF JUSTICE,
SENATORS, COUNSEL TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE, I'M JASON CROW FOR THE
GREAT STATE OF COLORADO. THE
HOUSE MANAGERS STRONGLY SUPPORT
THE AMENDMENT TO SUBPOENA KEY
DOCUMENTS FROM THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET FOR OMB.
THIS DOCUMENT GO DIRECTLY TO ONE
OF PRESIDENT TRUMPS ABUSES OF
POWER. HIS DECISION TO WITHHOLD
VITAL MILITARY AID FROM A
STRATEGIC PARTNER THAT IS AT WAR
TO BENEFIT HIS OWN PERSONAL
REELECTION CAMPAIGN. WHY SHOULD
THAT MATTER? WHY SHOULD ANYBODY
CARE? WHY SHOULD I CARE?
BEFORE I WAS A MEMBER OF
CONGRESS, I WAS AN AMERICAN
SOLDIER. SERVING IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN. AND ALTHOUGH SOME
YEARS HAVE PASSED SINCE THAT
TIME, THERE ARE STILL SOME
MEMORIES THAT ARE SEARED INTO MY
BRAIN. ONE OF THOSE MEMORIES WAS
SCAVENGING SCRAP METAL IN THE
STREETS OF BAGHDAD IN THE SUMMER
OF 2003. THAT WE HAD TO BOLT
ONTO THE SIDE OF OUR TRUCKS.
BECAUSE WE HAD NO ARMOR TO
PROTECT AGAINST ROADSIDE BOMBS.
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT TROOPS NOT
GETTING THE EQUIPMENT THAT THEY
NEED WHEN THEY NEED IT, IT IS
PERSONAL TO ME. TO BE CLEAR,
HERE, WE ARE TALKING ABOUT $391
MILLION OF TAXPAYER MONEY.
INTENDED TO PROTECT OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY, I HELPING OUR
STRATEGIC PARTNER, UKRAINE FIGHT
AGAINST BRITAIN MAX RUSSIA, AN
ADVERSARY OF THE UNITED STATES.
VLADIMIR PUTIN. THE PRESIDENT
CANNOT CARRY OUT THIS SCHEME
ALONE. HE NEEDED A LOT OF PEOPLE
TO HELP. AND THAT IS WHY WE KNOW
AS MUCH ABOUT IT AS WE DO TODAY.
BUT THERE IS MUCH MORE TO KNOW.
AND THAT IS WHAT TRIALS ARE FOR.
TO GET THE FULL PICTURE. WE KNOW
THERE IS MORE BECAUSE PRESIDENT
TRUMP NEEDED THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO STOP WHAT SHOULD HAVE
BEEN RIGHT RELEASE OF FUNDS
MANDATED BY CONGRESS. A RELEASE
OF FUNDS THAT WAS ALREADY
UNDERWAY.
THE PEOPLE IN THIS CHAMBER DO
NOT NEED ME TO TELL YOU THAT.
BECAUSE 87 OF YOU IN THIS ROOM
VOTED FOR VITAL FUNDS TO SUPPORT
OUR VITAL PARTNER, UKRAINE.
WITNESSES BEFORE THE HOUSE
TESTIFIED EXTENSIVELY ABOUT
OWNBY'S INVOLVEMENT IN CARRYING
IT OUT. IT WAS OMB
THAT RELATE THE PRESIDENT'S
INSTRUCTIONS IMPLEMENTED THE
WHOLE THING. WAS OWNBY THAT
SCRIBBLED TO JUSTIFY IT. OMB HAS
KEY DOCUMENTS THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAS REFUSED TO TURN OVER
TO CONGRESS. IT IS TIME TO
SUBPOENA THOSE ARGUMENTS.
THESE DOCUMENTS WOULD PROVIDE
INSIGHT INTO CRITICAL ASPECTS OF
THE MILITARY. IT WOULD SHOW THE
DECISION-MAKING PROCESS THE
MOTIVATION BEHIND PRESIDENT
TRUMPS FREEZE. IT WOULD REVEAL
THE CONCERNS EXPRESSED BY CAREER
OMB OFFICIALS, INCLUDING LAWYERS
AND VIOLATED THE LAW. IT WOULD
EXPOSE THE LINKS AND THE LINKS
OMB  WENT TO JUSTIFY THE WHOLE.
IT WOULD REVEAL CONCERNS ABOUT
THE IMPACT OF THE FREEZE ON
UKRAINE AND U. S. NATIONAL
SECURITY. AND IT WOULD SHOW THAT
SENIOR OFFICIALS REPEATEDLY
APPEALED TO PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY  RELEASE THE HOLD. IN
SHORT, IT WOULD SHOW EXACTLY HOW
THE PRESIDENT CARRIED OUT THE
SCHEME TO USE OUR NATIONAL
DEFENSE FUNDS TO BENEFIT HIS
PERSONAL POLITICAL CAMPAIGN. WE
ARE NOT SPECULATING ABOUT THE
EXISTENCE OF THIS DOCUMENT. WE
ARE NOT GUESSING ABOUT WITH THE
DOCUMENTS WHICH SHOW. DURING THE
COURSE OF THE INVESTIGATION IN
THE HOUSE, WITNESSES, WHO
TESTIFIED BEFORE THE COMMITTEES,
IDENTIFIED MULTIPLE DOCUMENTS,
DIRECTLY RELEVANT TO THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY THAT THE OMB
CONTINUES TO HOLD TO THE STATE.
WE KNOW THESE DOCUMENTS EXIST.
AND WE KNOW THE ONLY REASON WE
DO NOT HAVE THEM IS BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT DIRECTED OMB NOT TO
PRODUCE THEM. BECAUSE HE KNOWS
WHAT THEY WOULD SHOW.
TO  DEMONSTRATE THE SIGNIFICANCE
OF THE OMB DOCUMENTS AND THE
VALUE THEY WOULD PROVIDE INTO
THE  TRIAL, I WANT TO WALK YOU
THROUGH SOME OF WHAT WE KNOW
EXISTS. FOR WHICH THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION HAS REFUSED TO
TURN OVER. AS WE HAVE DISCUSSED,
THE TOP ADMINISTRATION HAS
REFUSED TO TURN OVER ANY
DOCUMENTS TO THE HOUSE IN
RESPONSE TO MULTIPLE SUBPOENAS
AND REQUESTS.
BASED ON WHAT IS KNOWN FROM THE
TESTIMONY AND THE FEW DOCUMENTS
THAT HAVE BEEN OBTAINED THROUGH
PUBLIC REPORTING, IT IS CLEAR
THAT THE PRESIDENT IS TRYING TO
HIDE THE EVIDENCE BECAUSE HE IS
AFRAID OF WHAT IT WOULD SHOW.
THE DOCUMENTS OFFER STARK
EXAMPLES OF THE CHAOS AND
CONFUSION THAT THE PRESIDENT
SCHEME SET OFF ACROSS OUR
GOVERNMENT. AND MAKE CLEAR THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE ARGUMENTS THAT
ARE BEING CONCEALED BY THE
PRESIDENT. WE KNOW THAT OMB HAS
DOCUMENTS THAT REVEAL AS EARLY
AS JUNE THE PRESIDENT WAS
CONSIDERING HOLDING MOTOR AID TO
UKRAINE. THE PRESIDENT AGAIN
QUESTIONING MILITARY AID TO
UKRAINE AFTER CONGRESS
APPROPRIATED AND AUTHORIZED THE
MONEY. 250 MILLION IN DOD FUNDS.
AND $141 MILLION IN STATE
DEPARTMENT FUNDS. THIS FUNDING
HAD WIDE BIPARTISAN SUPPORT
BECAUSE AS MANY WITNESSES
TESTIFIED, PROVIDING MILITARY
AID TO UKRAINE TO DEFEND ITSELF
AGAINST RUSSIAN AGGRESSION ALSO
BENEFITS OUR OWN NATIONAL
SECURITY. IMPORTANTLY, THE
PRESIDENT'S QUESTIONS CAME WEEKS
AFTER THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
ALREADY CERTIFIED THAT UKRAINE
HAD UNDERTAKEN ANTICORRUPTION
REFORMS AND OTHER MEASURES
MANDATED BY CONGRESS AS A
CONDITION FOR RECEIVING AID.
THERE IS A PROCESS FOR MAKING
SURE THE FUNDS MAKE IT TO THE
RIGHT PLACE AND TO THE RIGHT
PEOPLE. THE PROCESS HAS BEEN
FOLLOWED EVERY YEAR THAT WE HAVE
BEEN PROVIDING SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE. INCLUDING
THE FIRST TWO YEARS OF THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION. NONETHELESS, THE
PRESIDENT QUESTIONS DAYS AFTER
DOD ISSUED A PRESS RELEASE. ON
JUNE 18, ANNOUNCING IT WOULD
PROVIDE 250 MILLION TO MILITARY
AID TO THE GREAT. ACCORDING TO
PUBLIC REPORTING, THE DAY AFTER
DOD'S PRESS RELEASE, A WHITE
HOUSE OFFICIAL AND ROBERT BLAIR
CALLED OMB ACTING DIRECTOR TO
TALK ABOUT MILITARY AID TO
UKRAINE. ACCORDING TO PUBLIC
REPORTS, MR. BLAIR SAID "WE NEED
TO HOLD IT UP. ". OMB HAS
REFUSED TO PRODUCE DOCUMENTS
RELATED TO THIS CONVERSATION.
THE SENATE CAN GET THEM BY
PASSING THE AMENDMENT AND
ISSUING A SUBPOENA. THERE IS
MORE. THE SAME DAY BLAIR TOLD
HIM TO HOLD UP THE AID,  MICHAEL
DUFFEY, A POLITICAL APPOINTEE AT
OMB  WHO REPORTS TO RUSSELL BOYD
SENT AN EMAIL AND SAID THE
PRESIDENT HAD QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE AID. DUFFY  COPIED MARK
SANDY, A CAREER OFFICIAL AT OMB
, WHO TOLD US ABOUT AN EMAIL IN
HIS TESTIMONY BEFORE THE HOUSE.
IN OTHERS, THE EMAIL IS NOT
PRODUCED BY THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION AND THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT INVESTIGATION. WE
KNOW THE EMAIL EXISTS HOWEVER,
BECAUSE IN RESPONSE TO A FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION LAWSUIT, THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION HAD TO
RELEASE A REDACTED EMAIL,
CONSISTENT WITH THE DECEPTION.
OMB PROVIDED NONE OF THE
DOCUMENTS TO THE HOUSE. WITH
THIS PROPOSED AMENDMENT, THE
SENATE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
OBTAIN AND REVIEW THE FULL
RECORD THAT FURTHER DEMONSTRATE
HOW AND WHY THE PRESIDENT WAS
WITHHOLDING AID .
THESE DOCUMENTS WOULD ALSO SHED
LIGHT ON THE PRESIDENT ORDER TO
IMPLEMENT THE HOLD. ON JULY 3,
THE STATE DEPARTMENT TOLD
VARIOUS OFFICIALS THAT OMB
BLOCKED IT FROM DISPENSING $141
MILLION OF AID. OMB DIRECTED THE
STATE DEPARTMENT NOT TO SEND A
NOTE VACATION TO CONGRESS ABOUT
SPENDING THE MONEY. WITHOUT THE
NOTIFICATION THAT AID WAS
EFFECTIVELY BLOCKED. WHY DID OMB
LOCK CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION?
WHO TOLD HIM TO DO IT. WHAT WAS
THE REASON. THE SENATE WOULD GET
THOSE ANSWERS IF IT ISSUED THE
SUBPOENA. BUT THERE IS MORE. ON
JULY 12, BLAIR, THE WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIAL WHO CALLED AND SAID "WE
NEED TO HOLD IT UP," AND SENT AN
EMAIL TO DUFFY AT OMB . BLAIR
SAID, "
THE PRESIDENT IS DIRECTING A
HOLD ON MILITARY SUPPORT FUNDING
FOR UKRAINE. " WE HAVE NOT SEEN
THIS EMAIL.
THE ONLY REASON WE KNOW ABOUT IT
IS FROM THE TESTIMONY OF MARK
SANDY. THE CAREER OMB OFFICIAL
WHO COMPLIED WITH HIS SUBPOENA.
AS YOU CAN SEE FROM THE
TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT AND FOR YOU,
SANDY TESTIFIED THE JULY TWELFTH
EMAIL DID NOT MENTION CONCERNS
ABOUT ANY OTHER COUNTRY OR ANY
OTHER AID PACKAGE. JUST UKRAINE.
THE DOZENS OF COUNTRIES WE
PROVIDE AID AND SUPPORT TO, THE
PRESIDENT WAS NOT CONCERNED
ABOUT ANY OF THEM.
WHY?
WE KNOW WHY
OMB HAS REFUSED TO PROVIDE A
COPY OF THE JULY TWELFTH EMAIL
PROGRAM IS REFUSED TO PROVIDE
DOCUMENT SURROUNDING IT ALL
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT TOLD OMB
TO CONTINUE TO HIDE THE TRUTH
FROM CONGRESS  AND THE MARKET
PEOPLE. WAS HE AFRAID OF. A
SUBPOENA ISSUED IN THE SENATE
WOULD SHOW US. OMB HAS RENTS
ABOUT A KEY SERIES OF MENUS
DOUGLAS BY THE PRESIDENT
TO WITHHOLD E AID. IN THE SECOND
HALF OF JULY, THE NATIONALS GO
TO COUNCIL CONVENED A SERIES OF
INTERAGENCY MEETINGS  ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT TOLD A MILITARY AID.
OMB DOCUMENTS TO SHOW WHAT
HAPPENED DURING THOSE MEETINGS.
FOR EXAMPLE, ON JULY 18 THE
NATIONAL SECURITY STAFF CONVENED
AN INTERAGENCY COMMITTEE TO
DISCUSS UKRAINE POLICY. DURING
THE MEETING, IT WAS OMB
REPRESENTATIVE WHO ANNOUNCED
PRESIDENT TRUMP PLACED A HOLD ON
ALL MILITARY AID TO UKRAINE.
AMBASSADOR BILL TAYLOR, THE MOST
SENIOR, TO UKRAINE PARTICIPATED
IN THE MEETING. AND HE DESCRIBED
HIS REACTION OF HIS OPEN
HEARING.
>> IN A REGULAR SECURE VIDEO
CONFERENCE CALL
ON JULY 18, I HEARD STAFF PERSON
FROM THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT
AND BUDGET SAY, THERE WAS A HOLD
ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE. BUT CANNOT SAY WHY. FOR
THE END OF AN OTHERWISE NORMAL
MEETING, A VOICE ON THE CALL,
PERSON OFFSCREEN SAID,
SHE WAS FROM OMB. HER BOSS HAD
INSTRUCTED HER NOT TO APPROVE
ANY ADDITIONAL SPENDING ON
SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR UKRAINE,
UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. I AND
OTHERS SAT IN ASTONISHMENT.
UKRAINIANS WERE FIGHTING
RUSSIANS AND COUNTED ON NOT ONLY
THE TRAINING AND WEAPONS, ALSO
THE ASSURANCE OF U. S. SUPPORT.
ALL  THE OMB STOPPERS AND SAID
WAS, THE DIRECTIVE HAD COME FROM
THE PRESIDENT . THE CHIEF OF
STAFF TO OMB . IN AN INSTANT I
REALIZED ONE OF THE KEY PILLARS
OF OUR STRONG SUPPORT UKRAINE
WAS THREATENED.
>> IT IS HARD TO BELIEVE THAT
OMB WOULD NOT HAVE ANY DOCUMENTS
FOLLOWING THE BOMBSHELL
ANNOUNCEMENT. SURELY DOES.
IT WAS AGENCY THAT DELIVERED THE
SHOCKING NEWS TO THE REST OF THE
U. S. GOVERNMENT THAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS WITHHOLDING VITAL
MILITARY AID FROM OUR PARTNERS.
AND WE WOULD SEE THESE DOCUMENTS
IF THE SENATE ISSUED A SUBPOENA.
THE JULY EIGHTEENTH MEETING WAS
THE FIRST IN A SERIES OF
MEETINGS WERE OMB HELD THE LINE
ON AID. THERE WAS A SECOND
MEETING JULY 23,  WILL BE
UNDERSTOOD AGENCIES RAISE
CONCERN ABOUT THE LEGALITY OF
OMB HOLD ON THE EIGHTH. AND A
THIRD MEETING ON A SENIOR LEVEL
ON JULY 26. WITNESSES TESTIFIED
THAT AT THAT MEETING, OMB
STRUGGLED TO OFFER  AN
EXPLANATION FOR THE HOLD. AND A
FOURTH MEETING ON JULY 31 WITH A
LEGAL CONCERNS ABOUT THE HOLD
WERE RAISED TO EACH OF THESE
MEETINGS THERE WAS CONFUSION
ABOUT THE SCOPE
AND THE REASONS FOR THE HOLD.
NOBODY SEEMED TO KNOW WHAT WAS
GOING ON. THAT WAS EXACTLY THE
POINT. ALL OF THE AGENCIES,
EXCEPT OMB, WHICH WAS SIMPLY A
VEIN THE PRESIDENT ORDER,
SUPPORTING MILITARY AID AND
ARGUED FOR LIFTING THE HOLD. OMB
DID NOT PRODUCE A SINGLE
DOCUMENT TO PROVIDE INFORMATION
ABOUT IS PARTICIPATION,
PREPARATION OR FOLLOW-UP FROM
ANY OF THESE MEETINGS.
DID  THIS OMB OFFICIALS COME
PREPARED WITH TALKING POINTS FOR
THE MEETINGS. THE  OMB OFFICIALS
TAKE NOTES  DURING ANY OF THESE
MEETINGS. DID THE EXCHANGE
E-MAILS ABOUT WHAT WAS GOING ON?
DID THEY DISCUSS REASONS TO GIVE
ANYONE ELSE FOR THE HOLD. BY
ISSUING THE SUBPOENA, THE SENECA
FIND OUT THE ANSWERS TO ALL OF
THE QUESTIONS AND OTHERS LIKE
IT. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE
ANSWERS.
OMB COULD REVEAL KEY FACTS ABOUT
JULY 25. ON JULY 25, PRESIDENT
TRUMP CONDUCTED HIS UNCLE WITH
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY. DURING WHICH
HE DEMANDED  A FAVOR.
HIS FAVOR WAS FOR UKRAINE TO
CONDUCT AN OF EDUCATION TO
BENEFIT THE PRESIDENT'S
REELECTION CAMPAIGN.
JUST 90 MINUTES AFTER HE HUNG UP
THE PHONE
THE POLITICAL APPOINTEE TO OMB
WHO IS IN CHARGE OF NATIONAL
SKIRTED PROGRAM, EMAIL DOD TO"
FORMALIZE" THE HOLD ON MILITARY
AID. JUST 90 MINUTES AFTER
PRESIDENT TRUMPS CALL CALL IN
WHICH THE PRESIDENT HAD ASKED
FOR A FAVOR. THAT EMAIL IS ON
THE SCREEN FROM YOU. WE HAVE A
REDACTED COPY OF THE EMAIL
PROGRAM WAS RECENTLY RELEASED
THROUGH THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT. IT IS NOT
RELEASED BY THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION IN RESPONSE TO
THE SUBPOENA. IN THIS EMAIL
DUFFY TOLD THE DOD OFFICIAL THAT
BE SOMEONE THAT IS HE HAD
RECEIVED A "HOLD OFF ON ANY
ADDITIONAL DOD OBLIGATIONS OF
THESE FUNDS. "
>> HE ADDED
, THE REQUEST WAS "SENSITIVE. "
AND THEY SHOULD KEEP THE
INFORMATION CLOSELY HELD.
MEANING, DO NOT TELL ANYBODY
ABOUT IT.
WHY DID DUFFY CONSIDER THE
INFORMATION SENSITIVE? WHY
DIDN'T HE WANT ANYONE TO LEARN
ABOUT IT? ANSWERS TO THOSE
QUESTIONS MAY BE FOUND IN OMB
E-MAILS. E-MAILS THAT WE CAN ALL
SEE IF YOU ISSUE A SUBPOENA.
THERE IS MORE.
REMEMBER THE ADMINISTRATION
NEEDED TO CREATE A WAY TO STOP
FUNDING THAT WAS ALREADY
UNDERWAY. THE TRAIN HAD A READY
LEFT THE STATION. SOMETHING LIKE
THIS HAD NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE.
LATER IN THE EVENING OF JULY 25,
OMB FOUND A WAY. EVEN THOUGH DOD
HAD ALREADY NOTIFIED CONGRESS
THAT THE FUNDS WOULD BE
RELEASED. HERE IS HOW THE SCHEME
WORKS. OMB SENT DOD A FUNDING
DOCUMENT THAT INCLUDED A
CAREFULLY WORDED FOOTNOTE,
DIRECTING DOD TO HOLD OFF ON
SPENDING THE FUNDS. "TO ALLOW
FOR AN INTERAGENCY PROCESS TO
DETERMINE THE BEST USE. "
REMEMBER THAT LANGUAGE.
TO ALLOW FOR AN INTERAGENCY
PROCESS TO DETERMINE THE BEST
USE. LET ME EXPLAIN THAT THE
FOOTNOTE SEATED, THAT THIS BRIEF
PAUSE WOULD NOT PREVENT DOD FROM
SPENDING THE MONEY BY THE END OF
THE FISCAL YEAR. WHICH IS COMING
UP SEPTEMBER 30. OMB HAD TO DO
THIS BECAUSE IT KNEW THAT NOT
SPENDING THE MONEY WAS ILLEGAL.
THEY KNEW THAT DOD WOULD BE
WORRIED ABOUT THAT. AND THEY
WERE CORRECT. DOD WAS WORRIED
ABOUT IT.
MR. SANDY TESTIFIED THAT IN THE
12 YEARS OF EXPENSE AND OMB, HE
COULD RECALL THAT I CANNOT
RECALL ANYTHING LIKE THIS EVER
HAPPENING BEFORE. THE DRAFTING
OF THE UNUSUAL FUNDING DOCUMENT
AND ISSUANCE OF THE DOCUMENT
MUST HAVE GENERATED A
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF EMAIL
TRAFFIC,  MEMOS AND OTHER
DOCUMENTATION AT OMB . MEMOS,
EMAIL TRAFFIC AND DOCUMENTATION
THAT WE WOULD ALL SEE IF THE
SENATE ISSUED A SUBPOENA. WHAT
WAS THE RESULT OF THE SERIES OF
EVENTS ON JULY 25? WHERE WAS MR.
DUFFY'S GUIDANCE COMING FROM?
WHY WAS THE REQUEST SENSITIVE?
WAS THE CONNECTION BETWEEN OMB
DIRECTION TO DOD AND THE CALL
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD WITH
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY , JUST 90
MINUTES BEFORE? DID AGENCY
OFFICIALS COMMUNICATE ABOUT
QUESTIONS COMING FROM CRANIAL
OFFICIALS? THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
DESERVE ANSWERS. A SUBPOENA
WOULD PROVIDE THOSE ANSWERS.
OMB DOCUMENT WOULD REVEAL
INFORMATION ABOUT THE DECISION
TO HAVE A POLITICAL APPOINTEE
TAKE OVER UKRAINIAN FUNDING
POSSIBILITY. THE TENSIONS AND
CHAOS SURROUNDING THE FREEZE
ESCALATING AT THE END OF JULY,
WHEN DUFFY, A POLITICAL
APPOINTEE AT OMB, WITH NO
RELEVANT EXPERIENCE IN FUNDING
APPROVAL TO AUTHORITY FOR
RELEASING MILITARY AID AWAY FROM
SANDY, A CAREER OMB OFFICIAL.
SANDY COULD THINK OF NO OTHER
EXPLANATION OF A POLITICAL
DOESN'T NO OTHER EXAMPLE OF A
POLITICAL APPOINTEE TAKING ON
THIS IS AT THE ABILITY. SANDY
WAS GIVEN NO REASON, OTHER THAN
MR. DUFFY WANTED TO BE "MORE
INVOLVED IN DAILY OPERATIONS. "
DURING HIS DEPOSITION, SANDY
CONFIRMED HE WAS REMOVED FROM
THE FUNDING APPROVAL PROCESS
AFTER IT RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT
WHETHER THE HOLD WAS LEGAL UNDER
THE EMPOWERMENT CONTROL ACT.
NEEDLESS TO SAY, OMB HAS REFUSED
TO TURN OVER ANY DOCUMENTS OR
PUBLICATIONS INVOLVING THE
DECISION TO REPLACE MR. SANDY.
WHY DID DUFFY, A POLITICAL
APPOINTEE WITH NO RELEVANT
EXPERIMENTS IN THIS AREA, TAKE
OVER RESPONSE ABILITY FOR
UKRAINE FUNDING APPROVAL? WAS
THE WHITE HOUSE INVOLVED IN THE
DECISION? WAS SANDY REMOVED
BECAUSE HE EXPRESSED CONCERNS
ABOUT THE LEGALITY OF THE HOLD?
BY AUGUST 7, PEOPLE IN OUR
GOVERNMENT WERE WORRIED. I WOULD
PEOPLE IN THE GOVERNMENT WORRY,
SOMETIMES, WHAT THEY DO IS DRAFT
MEMOS. BECAUSE WHEN THEY ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT GETTING CAUGHT
UP IN SOMETHING THAT DOESN'T
SEEM RIGHT, THEY DO NOT WANT TO
BE A PART OF IT. ON THAT DAY,
MARK SANDY AND OTHER COLLEAGUES
AT OMB, DRAFTED AND SENT A MEMO
ABOUT UKRAINE MILITARY AID  TO
ACTING DIRECTOR. ACCORDING TO
SANDY, THE MEMO ADVOCATED FOR
THE RELEASE OF FUNDS. IT SAID
THE MILITARY AID WAS CONSISTENT
WITH AMERICAN NATIONAL SECURITY
INTEREST. IT WOULD HELP TO
OPPOSE RUSSIAN AGGRESSION AND
WAS BACKED BY STRONG BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT. PRESIDENT TRUMP'S DID
NOT RECEIVE IT.
OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS, OMB
CONTINUED TO ISSUE FUNDING
DOCUMENTS THAT KEPT KICKING THE
CAN DOWN THE ROAD. SUPPOSEDLY TO
ALLOW FOR MORE "INTERAGENCY
PROCESS. " INSERTING THE
FOOTNOTES FOR THE APPORTIONMENT
DOCUMENT, STATING THAT THE LAKE
WOULD NOT AFFECT FUNDING. HERE
IS THE SHOCKING PART. THERE WAS
NO INTERAGENCY PROCESS. THEY
MADE IT UP. IT HAD ENDED MONTHS
BEFORE. THEY MADE IT UP BECAUSE
NOBODY COULD SAY THE REAL REASON
FOR THE HOLD. IN TOTAL, OMB
ISSUED NINE OF THESE DOCUMENTS
BETWEEN LIGHT 25 OF THE TIMBER
10. TO THE WHITE HOUSE RESPOND
TO OMB CONCERNS  AND
RECOMMENDATION TO RELEASE THE
AID? DID THE WHITE HOUSE
INSTRUCT OMB TO CONTINUE
CRATING A PAPER TRAIL IN AN
EFFORT TO JUSTIFY THE HOLD? WHO
KNEW WHAT AND WHEN? OMB
DOCUMENTS WOULD SHED LIGHT ON
OMB ACTIONS, AS THE PRESIDENTS
SCHEME UNRAVELED. DID THE WHITE
HOUSE DIRECT OMB TO CONTINUE
ISSUING THE HOLD? WHAT WAS OMB
TOLD ABOUT THE PRESIDENTS REASON
FOR RELEASING THE HOLD ?  WHAT
COMMUNICATIONS DID OMB OFFICIALS
HAVE  WITH THE WHITE HOUSE
AROUND THE TIME OF THE POLICE?
IS THE SCHEME UNRAVELED, DID
ANYONE AT OMB CONNECT THE DOTS
FOR THE REAL REASON FOR THE
HOLD? THE OMB DOCUMENT SWITCH A
LIGHT ON ALL OF THESE QUESTIONS
AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE
ANSWERS.
I REMEMBER WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO
NOT HAVE THE EQUIPMENT THAT YOU
NEED, WHEN YOU NEED IT.
REAL PEOPLE'S LIVES ARE AT
STAKE. THAT IS WHY THIS MATTERS.
WE NEED THIS INFORMATION, SO
THAT WE CAN ENSURE THAT THIS
NEVER HAPPENS AGAIN. EVENTUALLY,
IT WILL ALL COME OUT. WE WILL
HAVE ANSWERS TO THE QUESTIONS.
THE QUESTION NOW, IS WHETHER WE
WILL HAVE THEM IN TIME. AND WHO
HERE WILL BE ON THE RIGHT SIDE
OF HISTORY.
SIR, CHIEF JUSTICE WE RESERVE
THE BALTIMORE TIME TO RESPOND TO
THE ARGUMENT.
>> MR. SEKULOW.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
AND MEMBERS OF THE SENATE.
MANAGER CROW, YOU SHOULD BE
HAPPY TO KNOW THAT THE AID THAT
WAS PROVIDED TO UKRAINE OVER THE
COURSE OF THE PRESIDENT'S
ADMINISTRATION, INCLUDED
WEAPONS. THEY WERE NOT PROVIDED
BY THE PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATION.
THE SUGGESTION THAT THE UKRAINE
FAILED TO GET ANY EQUIPMENT IS
FALSE.
THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE WAS NOT
FOR FUNDING UKRAINE OVER THE
SUMMER OF 2019. THERE WAS NO
LACK OF EQUIPMENT DUE TO THE
TEMPORARY PAUSE OF FUTURE
FUNDING.
THE DEPUTY MINISTER OF DEFENSE,
WHO OVERSAW USAID SET THE HOLD
CAME AND WENT SO QUICKLY, THEY
DID NOT NOTICE ANY CHANGE. UNDER
SECRETARY OF STATE, DAVID HALE,
HE EXPLAINED THE PAUSE WAS
FUTURE ASSISTANCE. NOT TO KEEP
THE ARMY GOING NOW. THE MADE-UP
NARRATIVE THAT SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WAS CONDITIONED ON
UKRAINE TAKING SOME ACTION ON
INVESTIGATION IS FURTHER
DISPROVED BY THE STRICT FORD
FACT THE AID WAS DELIVERED OF
THE TIMBER 11, 2019, WITHOUT
UKRAINE TAKING ACTION ON ANY
INVESTIGATION. IT IS INTERESTING
TO NOTE, THAT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WITHHELD $585
MILLION OF PROMISED AID TO
EGYPT. IN 2013. THE
ADMINISTRATION PUBLIC MESSAGE
WAS THE MONEY WAS NOT OFFICIALLY
ON HOLD, AS TECHNICALLY IT WAS
NOT DUE UNTIL THE TIMBER 30. THE
END OF THE FISCAL YEAR. AND THEY
DID NOT DISCLOSE THE HALL TO
ANYONE. IT SOUNDS LIKE THIS MAY
BE A PRACTICE OF A NUMBER OF
ADMINISTRATIONS. IN FACT,
THIS PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
CONCERNED ABOUT HOW AID IS BEING
PUT FORWARD. THERE HAPPENED
PAUSES ON FORWARD AID IN A
VARIETY OF CONTACTS.
OVER $100 MILLION OF AID HAS
BEEN WITHHELD DUE TO CONCERNS
ABOUT GOVERNMENT CORRUPTION. IN
AUGUST 2019, PRESIDENT TRUMP
ANNOUNCED THE ADMINISTRATION AND
SOUL WERE IN TALKS TO
SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE SOUTH
KOREA'S SHARE OF THE EXTENSIVE
U. S. MILITARY SUPPORT FOR SOUTH
KOREA. IN JUNE, PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S PAUSED OVER $550 MILLION
IN FOREIGN AID TO EL SALVADOR,
HONDURAS AND GUATEMALA BECAUSE
THEY WERE NOT SHARING THE BURDEN
OF PREVENTING MASS MIGRATION TO
THE UNITED STATES. THIS IS NOT
THE ONLY ADMINISTRATION
. AS I SAID, PRESIDENT OBAMA
WITHHELD HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS OF AID TO EGYPT. TO BE
CLEAR, AND I WANT TO BE CLEAR,
AMBASSADOR MARIE YOVANOVITCH
TESTIFIED OUR POLICY GOT
STRONGER UNDER PRESIDENT TRUMP.
LARGELY BECAUSE UNLIKE THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, THIS
DEMONSTRATED MADE THE DECISION
TO PROVIDE WEAPONS TO UKRAINE.
TO HELP UKRAINE FEND OFF RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION. SHE TESTIFIED IN A
DEPOSITION THAT I FELT IN THE
THREE YEARS I WAS THERE, PARTLY
BECAUSE OF MY EFFORTS, BUT ALSO
THE INTERAGENCY TEAMS AND
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S DECISION TO
PROVIDE LETHAL WEAPONS UKRAINE,
THAT OUR POLICY ACTUALLY GOT
STRONGER.
DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY KENT
HAS COME UP A COUPLE TIMES. HE
AGREED JAVELINS ARE INCREDIBLY
EFFECTIVE FARMERS. AND RUSSIANS
ARE SCARED OF US. AMBASSADOR
VOLKER EXPLAINED THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S APPROVED EACH OF THE
DECISIONS MADE ALONG THE WAY. AS
A RESULT, AMERICAN POLICY TOWARD
UKRAINE IMPROVED. IF YOU WANT TO
TALK ABOUT FACTS, WITH YOUR OWN
DISCOVERY. AND YOUR OWN
WITNESSES THAT YOU CALLED.
IS ALL SUPPOSEDLY STARTED DUE TO
A WHISTLEBLOWER.
WHERE IS THE WHISTLEBLOWER?
>> THE HOUSE MANAGER HAS 35
MINUTES REMAINING.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, AT WAR,
TIME MATTERS. MINUTES AND HOURS
CAN SEEM LIKE YEARS. THE IDEA
THAT IT MADE IT THERE EVENTUALLY
JUST DOES NOT WORK. AND YES, THE
AID WAS PROVIDED. WAS PROVIDED
BY CONGRESS. THE SENATE AND
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. WITH
THE PRESIDENT SIGNATURE.
CONGRESS IS THE ONE THAT SENDS
THE AID.
AND MILLIONS OF DOLLARS OF THE
STATE WOULD HAVE BEEN LOST
BECAUSE OF THE DELAY. HAD
CONGRESS NOT ACTUALLY PAST
ANOTHER LAW THAT EXTENDED THE
DEADLINE, TO ALLOW THE FUNDS
TO BE SPENT. LET ME REPEAT THAT,
THE DELAY JEOPARDIZED THE
EXPENDITURE OF MONEY TO SUCH AN
EXTENT, THAT CONGRESS HAD TO
PASS ANOTHER LAW, TO EXTEND THE
DEADLINE SO THAT THE MONEY AND
EQUIPMENT GOT TO THE PEOPLE ON
THE FRONT LINES.
NEED I ALSO REITERATE, THE
SUPPOSE IT INTERAGENCY PROFITS.
A CONCERN THAT THE PRESIDENT AND
HIS COUNSEL CONTINUED TO RAISE
BACK CORRUPTION AND MAKING SURE
THE PROCESS WENT RIGHT. THERE
WAS NO INTERAGENCY PROCESS. THE
WHOLE THING WAS MADE UP. IT WAS
A PHANTOM. THERE WAS A DELAY AND
DELAYS MATTER. MR. CHIEF
JUSTICE, I RESERVE THE BALANCE
OF MY TIME.
>> MR. ADAM SCHIFF.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHIEF JUSTICE.
JUST A FEW ADDITIONAL POINTS I
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE ON THE
AMENDMENT. AND MY COLLEAGUES
ARGUMENTS. FIRST OF ALL, MR.
SEKULOW MISS THE POINT THAT THE
AID ULTIMATELY GOT RELEASED.
THEY ULTIMATELY GOT THE MONEY,
RIGHT? YES, THEY GOT THE MONEY
AFTER THE PRESIDENT GOT CAUGHT.
AFTER THE PRESIDENT WAS FORCED
TO RELEASE THE HOLD ON THE AID.
AFTER HE GOT CAUGHT, YES. EVEN
THEN, EVEN THEN, THEY HELD ONTO
THE AIDS ALONG THAT IT TOOK A
SUBSEQUENT ACT OF CONGRESS, TO
MAKE SURE IT ALL WENT OUT THE
DOOR. IS THE PRESIDENTS WAS TO
GET CREDIT FOR THAT? WE HAD TO
INTERVENE BECAUSE HE WITHHELD
THE AID SO LONG. AND THAT IS THE
ONLY REASON UKRAINE GOT ALL OF
THE AID THAT WE APPROVED IN THE
FIRST PLACE. MY COLLEAGUES HAVE
GLOSSED OVER THE FACT THAT WHAT
THEY DID WAS ILLEGAL. THAT THAT
GAO, AN INDEPENDENT WATCHDOG
AGENCY FOUND THAT THE HOLD WAS
ILLEGAL. IT NORMALLY VIOLATED
THE LAW, IT NOT ONLY TOOK AN ACT
OF CONGRESS TO MAKE SURE THEY
ULTIMATELY GOT THE AID, THIS IS
SUPPOSED TO BE THE DEFENSE TO
WHY YOU SHOULD NOT SEE THE
DOCUMENTS? IS THAT WHAT WE ARE
TO BELIEVE? COUNSEL ALSO SAYS,
HE IS NOT THE FIRST PRESIDENT TO
WITHHOLD AID. AND THAT IS TRUE.
AFTER ALL, COUNSEL SAYS,
PRESIDENT OBAMA WITHHELD AID TO
EGYPT YES, AT THE URGING OF
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS. SENATORS
JOHN McCAIN AND LINDSEY GRAHAM
URGED IT BE WITHHELD BECAUSE IT
WAS A REVOLUTION IN EGYPT. AFTER
IT WAS APPROPRIATED. IT WAS NOT
SOMETHING THAT WAS HIDDEN FROM
CONGRESS. IT WAS A DARN GOOD
REASON WHERE WE WANTED TO GIVE
AID TO GOVERNMENT AFTER A
REVOLUTION. WE ARE NOT SAYING
AID HAS NEVER BEEN WITHHELD.
THAT IS ABSURD. I WOULD HOPE AND
EXPECT IT IS THE FIRST TIME AID
HAS BEEN WITHHELD  THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES TO COERCE
AN ALLY AT WAR TO HELP THEM
CHEAT IN THE NEXT ELECTION. I
THINK THAT IS A FIRST. WHAT WE
DO HERE MAY DETERMINE IF IT IS
THE LAST.
AND ONE OTHER THING ABOUT THIS
PAUSE IN AID. THE ARGUMENT, NO
HARM, NO FOUL. GOT CAUGHT, THEY
GOT AID. WHAT IS THE BIG DEAL?
WELL, AS WE HER DURING THE
TRIAL, IT IS NOT JUST THE AID.
THE AID IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING. AS MR. CROW MENTIONED,
WITHOUT IT, YOU CANNOT DEFEND
YOURSELF. WE WILL HAVE TESTIMONY
ABOUT WHAT KIND OF MILITARY AID
THE PRESIDENT WAS WITHHOLDING.
WE ALSO HAVE TESTIMONY THAT IT
WAS THE FACT OF THE AID ITSELF,
THAT WAS SO IMPORTANT TO
UKRAINE. THE FACT THAT THE
UNITED STATES KEPT IT BACK. THE
NEW PRESIDENT OF THE UKRAINE,
THIS NEW UNTESTED FORMER
COMEDIAN, THE PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE, AT WAR WITH RUSSIA, IS
GOING INTO NEGOTIATING
WITH VLADIMIR PUTIN WITH AN EYE
TO ENDING CONFLICT. WHETHER HE
WENT INTO NEGOTIATING WITH
POSITION OF STRENGTH OR POSITION
OF WEAKNESS, WOULD DEPEND ON
WHETHER WE HAD HIS BACK. AND SO,
WHEN UKRAINIANS LEARNED
AND THE RUSSIANS LEARNED THAT
THE PRESIDENT OF THE IT IS
STATES DID NOT HAVE HIS BACK AND
WAS WITHHOLDING THE AID, WHAT
MESSAGE DID THAT SEND TO
VLADIMIR PUTIN? WHAT MESSAGE
DID IT SEND TO FIND MY PUTIN
WHEN DONALD TRUMP WILL NOT LET
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, OUT ALLY ,
IN THE DOOR AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
BUT DID LET THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER? WHAT MESSAGE DID IT
SEND? AS MUCH THE AID. OPEN THE
AID IS DELIVERED. OR IF ALL AID
IS DELIVERED. IT IS ALSO, WHAT
MESSAGE DID IT SENT TO OUR
FRIENDS. AND MORE IMPORTANTLY,
TO OUR FOES? THE MESSAGE IS SENT
WAS A DISASTER. NOW
, YOU MAY ASK YOURSELF
, BECAUSE COUNSEL HAS SAID
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S GAVE LETHAL
WEAPONS TO UKRAINE. YOU MAY ASK
YOURSELF, IF THE PRESIDENT IS SO
CONCERNED ABOUT CORRUPTION, WHY
DID HE DO THAT IN 2017? WHY DID
HE DO IT IN 2018? WHY WAS IT
ONLY 2019 THAT THERE WAS A
PROBLEM? WAS THERE NO CORRUPTION
IN UKRAINE IN 2017 OR 2018?
NO, UKRAINE HAS ALWAYS BATTLED
CORRUPTION. WHAT IS DIFFERENT
WHEN YOU'RE TO THE OTHER? IT WAS
THE PRESENCE OF JOE BIDEN AS A
POTENTIAL FOR PRESIDENT. THAT
WAS THE KEY CHANGE IN 2019 MADE
ALL THE DIFFERENCE. IT GETS BACK
TO ONE OF THE KEY MOMENTS IN THE
SAGA.
A LOT OF YOU ARE ATTORNEYS. WHAT
ATTORNEYS THAT I AM. I'M SURE
YOU HAVE THE EXPERIENCE IN CASES
YOU HAVE TRIED WHERE THERE WAS
SOME VIGNETTE OR CONVERSATION.
SOME DOCUMENT
AND IT MAY NOT HAVE BEEN AS
IMPORTANT ON ITS FACE. HE TOLD
YOU SOMETHING ABOUT THE CASE.
THERE WAS MUCH LARGER THAN A
CONVERSATION. FOR ME, ONE OF THE
CONVERSATIONS WAS NOT JULY 25
BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP'S WITH
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY. IT WAS JULY
26. THE NEXT DAY . YOU MAY HAVE
WATCHED SOME OF THE HOUSE
PROCEEDINGS. PEOPLE WATCHING,
MAY HAVE SEEN IT OR THEY DO NOT
THERE IS A SCENE IN A UKRAINIAN
RESTAURANT.
WITH  AMBASSADOR GORDON
SONDLAND. HE SAID, THERE WAS A
QUICK POLICE. TWO PLUS TWO
EQUALS FOUR. THIS IS NOT A NEVER
TRUMPER. HE IS A MILLION-DOLLAR
DONOR AT THE TRUMP INAUGURATION.
IF THERE IS A BIAS, IS A
MILLION-DOLLAR BIAS IN HIS
FAVOR. THERE IS A SCENE IN KEY
OF IN A RESTAURANT. AND
AMBASSADOR GORDON SONDLAND HAS A
CELL PHONE AND THIS  SITTING
WITH DAVID HOLMES, A U. S. LIMIT
DIPLOMAT. AND AMBASSADOR GORDON
SONDLAND CALLS THE WHITE HOUSE.
HE IS HOLDING FOR THE PRESIDENT
. AND IT IS WANT TO BE CONNECTED
. AND HE IS CONNECTED TO THE
PRESIDENT. IT IS IMPRESSIVE,
RIGHT? HE HAS A RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE PRESIDENT THE PRESIDENT
IS A HE BARELY KNOWS HIM, BUT
THE GUY CAN CALL HIM.
THE PRESIDENTS VOICE WAS SO
LOUD, DAVID HOLMES, U. S.
DIPLOMAT CAN HEAR HIM. WHAT DOES
THE PRESIDENT SAY? DOES HE SAY
HOW IS REFORM COMING? HOW IS THE
ATTACK ON CORRUPTION GOING? NO.
HE JUST SAYS, IS HE GOING TO DO
THE INVESTIGATION? IS VOLODYMYR
ZELENSKY GOING TO DO THE
INVESTIGATION?  AND AMBASSADOR
GORDON SONDLAND SAYS, YES , HE
WILL DO ANYTHING YOU WANT. HE
LOVES YOUR. THIS IS THE EXTENT
OF THE PRESIDENTS INTEREST IN
UKRAINE. THE GO TO TALK ABOUT
OTHER THINGS. AND THEN THEY HANG
UP. AND DAVID HOLMES TURNED TO
THE AMBASSADOR AND SAYS IN
LANGUAGE I WILL HAVE TO MODIFY.
TO REMOVE AN EXPLETIVE. HE SAYS
SOMETHING ALONG THE LINES OF,
DOES THE PRESIDENT GIVE A LINK
ABOUT UKRAINE? AND AMBASSADOR
GORDON SONDLAND SAYS NO , HE
DOES NOT GIVE A BLANK ABOUT
UKRAINE. HE ONLY CARES ABOUT THE
BIG STUFF. LIKE THE
INVESTIGATION OF THE BIDENS THAT
RUDY GIULIANI WANTS. THIS IS A
MILLION-DOLLAR DONOR TO THE
TRUMP INAUGURAL. ADMITTING THE
PRESIDENT DOES NOT CARE ABOUT
UKRAINE. HE DOES NOT CARE
WHETHER THEY GET MILITARY
DOLLARS TO DEFEND THEMSELVES. HE
DOES NOT CARE ABOUT WHAT
POSITION VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY GOES
INTO  WITH NEGOTIATIONS WITH
VLADIMIR PUTIN. HE DOES NOT CARE
ABOUT THAT. ISN'T THAT CLEAR? HE
DOES NOT CARE ABOUT CORRUPTION
IN 2017 OR 2018. HE CERTAINLY
DID NOT CARE IN 2019. ALL HE
CARED ABOUT WAS THE STUFF THAT
AFFECTED HIM PERSONALLY. THE
INVESTIGATION
THAT HE WANTED OF THE BIDENS.
SO WHEN YOU ASK, DO YOU WANT TO
SEE THESE DOCUMENTS? WANT TO
KNOW IF THE DOCUMENTS COOPERATE
AMBASSADOR GORDON SONDLAND?
WILL THE DOCUMENTS SHOW AS WE
EXPECT THEY DO THAT THE ONLY
THING HE CARED ABOUT WAS THE BIG
STUFF THAT AFFECTED HIM? DAVID
HOLMES RESPONSE WAS, WILL YOU
KNOW THERE IS BIG STUFF GOING ON
HERE LIKE THE WAR WITH RUSSIA.
THIS IS NOT WITHHOLDING AID
BECAUSE OF A REVOLUTION IN
EGYPT. THIS IS WITHHOLDING AID
FROM A COUNTRY IN WHICH 15,000
PEOPLE HAVE DIED FIGHTING THE
RUSSIANS. AS AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
SAID, AND OTHERS, RUSSIA IS
FIGHTING TO REMAKE THE MAP OF
EUROPE. USING MILITARY FORCE. IF
WE THINK THAT IS JUST ABOUT
UKRAINE SECURITY, WE ARE VERY
DECEIVED. IT IS ABOUT OUR
SECURITY. IS ABOUT TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF TROOPS WE HAVE IN
YOUR.
IF WE EDUCATE OUR OWN ALLY GIVE
RUSSIA A REASON TO BELIEVE WE DO
NOT HAVE THEIR BACK, AND USE
UKRAINE AS A PLEASING OR WORSE,
TO GET THEM JOBLESS CHEAT AND
ELECTION, IT WILL ONLY EMBOLDEN
PUTIN TO DO MORE. THE ONLY THING
HE RESPECTS HIS STRENGTH. IF YOU
THINK THAT LOOKS EXTRA TO
VLADIMIR PUTIN, I THINK IT LOOKS
LIKE SOMETHING VLADIMIR PUTIN IS
TOO ACCUSTOMED TO. THAT IS THE
KIND OF CORRUPTION THAT HE FINDS
AND PERPETUATES OF HIS OWN
REGIME AND PUSHES AROUND THE
WORLD. MY COLLEAGUE MADE
REFERENCE TO A CONVERSATION
WHICH IS ONE OF THE OTHER GETS
IN THE SAD SAGA. THAT IS A
CONVERSATION THAT AMBASSADOR TO
HAS WITH ONE OF THE TOP AIDES TO
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY. THIS IS A
CONVERSATION
WHERE AMBASSADOR VOLKER DOES
WHAT HE IS SUPPOSED TO BE DOING.
HE IS TELLING UNDER YOUR MOCK
YOU SHOULD NOT DO THE
INVESTIGATION OF YOUR FORMER
PRESIDENT. IT WOULD BE FOR A
POLITICAL REASON. YOU SHOULD NOT
ENGAGE IN POLITICAL
INVESTIGATIONS. THE
INVESTIGATIVE
PERSON SAID, LIKE THE ONE YOU
WANT US TO DO OF THE BIDENS AND
CLINTONS? HE THREW IT IN HIS
FACE. UKRAINE IS NOT OBLIVIOUS
TO THE HYPOCRISY.
MR.
>> LOU SAYS WHAT ARE HERE FOR? A
PART OF OUR STRENGTH IS NOT ONLY
SUPPORT FOR ALLIES AND MILITARY.
IT IS WHAT WE STAND FOR. WE USED
TO STAND FOR THE RULE OF LAW. WE
USED TO CHAMPION THE RULE OF LAW
AROUND THE WORLD. PART OF THE
RULE OF LAW IS THAT NO ONE IS
ABOVE THE LAW. BUT TO BE OUT IN
UKRAINE AS A DO NOT ENGAGE IN
POLITICAL PROSECUTION. AND
HAVING THEM THROW IT IN OUR
FACE. LIKE THE ONE YOU WANT US
TO DO. THAT IS WHY WE ARE HERE.
THAT IS WHY WE ARE HERE. THAT IS
WHY WE ARE HERE. I YELLED BACK.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE.
>> MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
>> I SENT A MOTION TO TABLE THE
AMENDMENT.
>> THE QUESTION IS ON THE
MOTION TO TABLE.  IS THERE A
SUFFICIENT SECOND? THERE
IS.CLERK WILL CALL THE ROLL.
>> MR. ALEXANDER.
MR. BALDWIN.
>> MR. BENNETT.
>> MRS. BLACKBURN. MR.
BLUMENTHAL.
MR. BLUNT. MR. BOOKER. MR.
BROZMAN. MR. BRAUN. MR. BROWN.
MR. BURR. MS. CANTWELL.
MR. CARTON. MR. CARPER. MR.
CASEY. MR. CASSIDY. MS. COLLINS.
MR. MR. CORNYN.
MR. COTTON. MR. KRAMER.
MR. CRAPO. MR. CRUZ.
MR. DANES.
MISS DUCKWORTH
MR. DURBIN. MR. ENZI.
MISS FEINSTEIN.
MRS. FISHER. MR. GARDNER. MRS.
GILLIBRAND. MR. GRAHAM. MR.
GRASSLEY. CHRIS HARRIS. MISS
HASSAN. MR. HOLLY. MR. HEINRICH.
MR. HOVEN. MRS. HYDE SMITH. MR.
IMHOFF.
MR. JOHNSON. MR. JONES. MR.
KANE. MR. KENNEDY.
MR. KING.
MS. KLOBUCHAR. MR. LANGFORD. MR.
LEAHY. MR. LEE.
MRS. LEFFLER.
MR. MANSION. MR. MARKEY. MR.
McCONNELL.
MS. MCSALLY. MR. MENENDEZ. MR.
MARKLEY. MR. MORAN.
MS. MARKOWSKI. MR. MURPHY.
MRS. MURRAY. MR. PAUL.
MR. PERDUE. MR. PETERS. MR.
PORTMAN. MR. REED.
MR. RIDGE. MR. ROBERTS. MR.
ROMNEY. MS. ROSEN.
MR. ROUNDS. MR. RUBIO.
MR. SANDERS. MR. SASSE.
MR. SHOTS. MR. SCHUMER. MR.
SCOTT OF FLORIDA. MR. SCOTT OF
SOUTH CAROLINA.
MRS. SHAHEEN. MR. SHELBY. MISS
SINEMA.
MS. SMITH.
MR. SULLIVAN.
MR. TESTER.
MR. THOON. MR. TILLIS. MR.
TOOMEY. MR. UDALL. MR. VAN
HOLLEN. MR. WARNER.
MS. WARREN.
MR. WHITEHOUSE. MR. WICKER. MR.
WYDEN.
MR. YOUNG.
THE AYE 53-47  NAY. THE MOTION
IS TABLE.
DEMOCRATIC LEADER IS RECOGNIZED.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, I SENT A
MEMO TO THE DESK. THE ISSUE IS
SUBPOENA TO JOHN MICHAEL MICK
MULVANEY. I ASK THAT IT BE READ.
>> SENATOR FOR NEW YORK MR.
SCHUMER POSES A MOMENT 1287. AT
THE APPROPRIATE PLACE IN THE
RESOLVING CLAUSE, INSERT THE
FOLLOWING SECTION,
NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER
PROVISION OF THE RESOLUTION,
PURSUANT TO RULES FIVE AND SIX
OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE AND
PRACTICE IN SENATE, WAS SITTING
ON IMPEACHMENT TRIAL, THE CHIEF
JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES TO
THE SECRETARY OF THE SENATE,
SHALL ISSUE A SUBPOENA FOR THE
TAKING OF TESTIMONY OF JOHN
MICHAEL MICK MULVANEY AND
SERGEANT AT ARMS IS AUTHORIZED
TO UTILIZE THE SERVICES OF THE
DEPUTY SERGEANT AT ARMS OR ANY
OTHER EMPLOYEE OF THE SENATE OF
SERVING SUBPOENA, OFFICE TO BE
ISSUED BY THE SECTION.
>> MAJORITY LEADER IS RECKONIZE.
>> MIA S FOR A 30 MINUTE RECESS
BEFORE PARTIES ARE RECOGNIZED?
TO DEBATE THE SCHUMER COMMITMENT
? FOLLOWING DEBATE TIME, I WILL
ONCE AGAIN MOVE TO TABLE THE
AMENDMENT. BECAUSE
, BASED ON WITNESSES AND
EVIDENCE, THAT ARE ADDRESSED IN
THE UNDERLYING RESOLUTION. I
STAND IN RECESS UNTIL 8:00.
>>
>> ORDERED.
SECURE WATCHING LIVE COVERAGE
FROM THE WASHINGTON POST. NO
SURPRISE, A THIRD AMENDMENT, THE
CHUCK SCHUMER PROPOSED WAS
TABLED. REPUBLICANS WERE ABLE TO
SUCCESSFULLY TABLE IT OR KILL
IT. WHAT THAT MEANS IS THAT THEY
CONTINUE MOVING FORWARD. SO FAR,
REPUBLICANS HAVE KILLED ATTEMPTS
TO SUBPOENA DOCUMENTS FROM OMB.
THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET ALSO, DOCUMENTS AND
RECORDS FROM THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND DOCUMENTS AND
RECORDS FROM THE WHITE HOUSE.
WITH THE DEMOCRATS WILL PUSH FOR
NEXT, IS AN ATTEMPT TO SUBPOENA
MICK MULVANEY
, THE ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF,
FORMERLY OF OMB. YOU CAN SEE
LEADER McCONNELL WALKING OUT, AS
MEMBERS HAD TO DINNER. WE EXPECT
THEM TO COME BACK IN HALF AN
HOUR.
IS THE PUSH FOR SUBPOENAS MORE
INFORMATION. THERE MAKING THE
CASE TO GET INFORMATION AND
LAYING OUT SOME OF THEIR
ARGUMENTS OF WHY PRESIDENT TRUMP
SHOULD BE IMPEACH. AS WE WATCH
OUTSIDE THE SENATE CHAMBERS. WE
HAVE ROBERT GOLDEN COVERING ALL
OF THIS ON CAPITOL HILL. RHONDA,
LET'S TALK ABOUT WITH DEMOCRATS
WILL PUSH FOR. AND WHAT THEY
HAVE BEEN TRYING TO GET ALL DAY
TODAY.
>> WHAT WE JUST SAW, AS WE GO
SAID, IT WAS A TABLED AMENDMENT
TO GET DOCUMENTS FROM THE OFFICE
OF MANAGEMENT.
>> THAT IS WHY CHUCK SCHUMER
BROUGHT IT UP AS AN OFFICE THAT
HE WANTED TO SUBPOENA DOCUMENTS
FROM. NEXT UP, WE ARE GOING TO
SEE, ONCE A COME BACK FROM THE
30 MINUTE RATE, WE'RE GOING TO
HEAR DEBATE OVER THE AMENDMENT
TO POSSIBLY SUBPOENA MICK
MULVANEY, THE ACTING CHIEF OF
STAFF OVER AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
HE IS A SOUGHT AFTER WITNESS. HE
SAID HE WOULD NOT COME. HE WANTS
AT LEAST TO BE ON THE RECORD AND
IT HAS BEEN ASKED THAT HE WOULD
BE SUBPOENAED TO BE A WITNESS.
HE IS A PERSON OF INTEREST TO A
LOT OF DEMOCRATS
. LAST WEEK, I SPOKE WITH
SENATOR DOUG JONES OF ALABAMA,
ABOUT WHAT HE WAS LOOKING AT IN
THE TRIAL. AND WHO HE WANTED TO
HEAR FROM. HE SAID AT THE TOP OF
MY LIST IS MICK MULVANEY,
BECAUSE OF THE FACT THAT HE WAS
ONCE A DIRECTOR OF OMB AND IS
NOW CHIEF OF STAFF. AND HE WOULD
HAVE A LOT OF INFORMATION THAT
HOUSE MEMBERS WANTED TO GET.
>> RHONDA, WHAT IS INTERESTING,
AS WE ARE HEARING ABOUT
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS,
REPRESENTING THE DEMOCRATS. AND
MAKE IT A CASE FOR WHY THEY
THINK THE INFORMATION IS
VALUABLE. WHERE THEY THINK OMB
IS AT THE CENTER OF THIS. WHY
THE SUBPOENA WOULD BE POWERFUL.
ALSO, WHETHER WANT THE RECORD
FOR THE STATE DEPARTMENT. EVEN
AS THEY REQUEST THE SUBPOENAS
AND DOCUMENTS, WE ARE GETTING
THE SENSE OF THE ARGUMENT THAT
THEY ARE MAKING TO IMPEACH
PRESIDENT TRUMP. BECAUSE THEY
ARE INTRODUCING PIECES OF
EVIDENCE AS AGO LONG.
TO TO GET PAST THE OPENING
ARGUMENTS, THERE WILL BE
QUESTIONS ABOUT THEIR ARGUMENTS.
YOU ARE PROBABLY GOING TO HEAR
WHAT YOU HAVE BEEN HEARING FROM
THEM. THEY HAVE BEEN LAYING OUT
EXTENSIVELY. THEY SEEM
WELL-PREPARED. BY REVIEWING THE
DIFFERENT TESTIMONIES THAT HAVE
OCCURRED IN THE PUBLIC PHASE.
THE UP AND RUNNING VIDEOS FROM
THE PUBLIC PHASE. PUTTING
DOCUMENTS ON THE SCREEN. NEWS
REPORTS ON THE SCREEN. THEY SEEM
READY TO BRING THE CASE, THAT
THEY BELIEVE THE PRESIDENT
PARTICIPATED IN CONDUCT AND
SHOULD BE IMPEACH. THEY ARE NOT
LETTING UP FROM THE VIEW. WHAT
THE DATE IS ABOUT IS THE
EIGHTEENTH OF RULES FOR THE
TRIAL. THEY ARE REALLY UTILIZING
THEIR TIME IN THE TWO HOURS OF
DEBATE, TO REALLY HAMMER DOWN
WITH THEIR PERSPECTIVE IS, WHEN
IT COMES TO IF THE PRESIDENT DID
PARTICIPATE IN THIS CONDUCT.
HAVE BEEN SAYING ALL ALONG, THE
CORE ARGUMENT IS HE IS THE
FRAMERS WORST NIGHTMARE. THE
FRAMERS WANTED THE IMPEACHMENT
CLAUSE TO PROTECT FROM A
PRESIDENT WHO WOULD WILLFULLY GO
AND DO THINGS ON THEIR OWN
PERSONAL AMBITION. AND THEY ARE
GOING TO CONTINUE TO BRING THAT
THROUGH, AS THE TRIAL CONTINUES.
>> RHONDA COLD AND, THANK YOU SO
MUCH. THE HOUSE MANAGER WILL
HEAR ARGUMENTS OVER CHUCK
SCHUMER'S ARGUMENTS. THEY WILL
USE THAT TO MAKE A BROADER CASE
AGAINST THE PRESIDENT.
CONGRESSMAN VAL DEMINGS IS AN
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER. IS THE
FIRST TIME WE HEAR FROM HER IN
THAT ROLE TODAY.
>> THE HOUSE MANAGERS STRONGLY
SUPPORT THE AMENDMENT TO ISSUE
SUBPOENAS FOR DOCUMENTS, TO THE
STATE DEPARTMENT. AS WE EXPLAIN,
THE FIRST ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT
CHARGES, THE PRESIDENT WAS USING
THE POWER OF HIS OFFICE, TO
SOLICIT AND PRESSURE UKRAINE, TO
ANNOUNCE INVESTIGATIONS, THAT
EVERYONE IN THIS CHAMBER KNOWS
TO BE BOGUS.
THE PRESIDENT DID NOT EVEN CARE
IF AN INVESTIGATION WAS
CONDUCTED, JUST THAT IT WAS
ANNOUNCED. WHY? BECAUSE THIS WAS
FOR HIS OWN PERSONAL AND
POLITICAL BENEFIT.
THE FIRST ARTICLE FOR THE
CHARGES THAT THE PRESIDENT DID
SO, WITH CORRECT MOTIVE. AND
THAT HIS USE OF POWER FOR
PERSONAL GAIN, HARMED THE
NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE UNITED
STATES. AS A SECOND ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT CHARGES, THE
PRESIDENT SOUGHT TO CONCEAL
EVIDENCE OF THIS CONDUCT. HE DID
SO, BY ORDERING HIS ENTIRE
ADMINISTRATION, EVERY OFFICE,
EVERY AGENCY, EVERY OFFICIAL, TO
DEFY EVERY SUBPOENA. SERVED IN
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY.
NO PRESIDENT IN HISTORY HAS EVER
DONE ANYTHING LIKE THIS. MANY
PRESIDENTS HAVE EXPRESSLY GET
KNOWLEDGE THAT THEY CANNOT DO
ANYTHING LIKE THIS. PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DID NOT TAKE THESE
EXTREME STEPS TO HIDE EVIDENCE
OF HIS INNOCENCE. OR TO PROTECT
THE INSTITUTION OF THE
PRESIDENCY AS A CAREER LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. I HAVE
NEVER SEEN ANYONE TAKE SUCH
EXTREME STEPS TO HIDE EVIDENCE,
ALLEGEDLY PROVING HIS INNOCENCE.
AND I DO NOT FIND THAT HERE
TODAY.
THE PRESIDENT IS ENGAGED IN THIS
COVER-UP. BECAUSE HE IS GUILTY.
HE KNOWS THE EVIDENCE HE IS
CONCEALING ONLY FOR THE
DEMONSTRATE HIS CULPABILITY.
THE HOUSE HAS AMASSED POWERFUL
EVIDENCE OF THE PRESIDENT AND
HIS EYE CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS.
>> THAT WAS VAL DEMINGS ONE OF
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS. WITH A
REPORTER IN CALI, MIKE, WHO HAS
BEEN COVERING THE STORY IN EVERY
STAGE. MIKE, TAKE US THROUGH THE
LINES OF REPORTING, THAT YOU
HAVE BEEN FOLLOWING TODAY. WHAT
IS STANDING OUT TO YOU, SO FAR?
>> Reporter: THANKS FOR HAVING
ME. LISTEN, WE ARE FINALLY IN
IT. WE ARE FINALLY HERE.
WATCHING THE TRIAL TAKE PLACE.
WE SPENT LITERALLY A MONTH
PREPARING FOR THIS DAY. ABOUT
GETTING THE FEEL OF THE
PROCEEDING.
HOW THE SENATORS ARE CONDUCTING
THEMSELVES TO THE MANAGERS ARE
PRESENTING THE CASE. THE WHITE
HOUSE IS PRESENTING A REBUTTAL.
GETTING A FEEL FOR THAT. WE HAVE
SEEN A SERIOUS AND ORGANIZED
CASE FROM THE MANAGERS. THEY ARE
GOING THROUGH A SERIES OF
DEMANDS. THAT THEY HAVE MADE TO
TRY TO MAKE THE TRIAL MORE IN
THEIR FAVOR. ON THE OTHER SIDE,
YOU HAVE SEEN THE WHITE HOUSE
GIVING A BROADSIDE DEFENSE OF
THE PRESIDENT. AND ATTACKS ON
THE DEMOCRATS. THE SERIOUS TONE
THEY HAVE
>>> IN TERMS OF DEFENDING THE
IMPEACHMENT. CAUGHT IN THE
MIDDLE OF SENATORS, WHO ARE
SITTING AND LISTENING TO AT ALL.
NOT REALLY SHOWING THEIR HAND,
EXCEPT IN BITS AND SPURTS IN
BETWEEN IN RECESSES. WE ARE
STARTING TO GET A FEEL FOR HOW
THE PROCEEDING WILL TAKE PLACE
OVER THE NEXT WEEK OR TWO. IF
NOT LONGER.
>> YOU AND YOUR COLLEAGUES, ON
CAPITOL HILL ARE DOING A GREAT
IMPEACHMENT LIVE UPDATE. AND ONE
OF THE STORIES HAS THE HEADLINE,
THE FIRST VICTIM, MR. RICH. HE
DOZED OFF A LITTLE BIT
DURING THE BACK AND FORTH. TELL
US WHAT YOU OBSERVED AND WHAT
HAPPENED.
>> THIS IS AN ENVIRONMENT. YOU
CANNOT TALK TO ANYBODY. YOU CAN
TAKE NOTES. YOU HAVE NOTHING
ELSE TO KEEP YOU OCCUPIED. TO
KEEP YOU ENGAGED IN WHAT IS
GOING ON. PEOPLE WILL FALL
ASLEEP. WE WERE KEYED ON WHO
WOULD BE THE FIRST. WE WENT IN
KNOWING TO BE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR
THIS. TOURNAMENT OF THE FOREIGN
RELATIONS COMMITTEE WAS THE
LUCKY MAN, AS FAR AS WE COULD
TELL. WE HAD OUR EYES PEELED. HE
WAS OUT A GOOD 20 MINUTES OR
MORE. HE GETS THE UNFORTUNATE
DEMERIT OF IN THE FIRST SENATOR
TO FALL ASLEEP DURING THE TRIAL
OF PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP.
>> WHAT IS IT LIKE BEING INSIDE
THE CHAMBER? YOU MENTIONED THAT
NUMBERS OF THE SENATE DO NOT
HAVE THE DEVICES. THEY HAVE TO
SIT THERE. THEY CAN ONLY TAKE
NOTES BY HAND. IF THEY WANT TO.
HOW MUCH ARE THEY MOVING AROUND?
WE CANNOT SEE IT. WE ARE ONLY
ABLE TO SEE THE CAMERA THAT THE
SENATE CONTROLS. YOU ARE THE
EYES AND EARS INSIDE THE
CHAMBER. ARE THEY GETTING UP AND
LEAVING? TODAY MILL ABOUT? WHAT
YOU WATCH?
>> I HAVE SEEN A FEW GET UP AND
LEAVE. EARLIER IN THE DAY WHEN
WE PUSHED, PEOPLE DID STAY IN
THEIR SEATS. THE LAST SESSION
, WITH IT DEALT WITH A COUPLE OF
AMENDMENTS, PEOPLE WERE MOVING
AROUND A LITTLE BIT. SENATOR
CRUZ GOT UP FOR A LITTLE WHILE.
CENTER WICKER IN A COUPLE
DEMOCRATS AS WELL. WHAT STRUCK
ME WAS THE GALLERIES ARE NOT
FULL. THE PUBLIC GALLERIES, OR
PEOPLE ARE ALLOWED TO COME AND
WATCH. THE PUBLIC GALLERY WAS
BEEN EMPTY FOR THE LAST HOUR OR
TWO. PART OF THAT IS THE TIGHTLY
CONTROLLED.
IT IS NOT LIKE YOU CAN JUST SHOW
UP AND COME IN AND WATCH.
THAT IS ONE THING THAT HAS
CHANGED ALL OF THIS. THE OTHER
THING IS THE SHEER NUMBER OF
PEOPLE WERE CROWDED ONTO THE
FLOOR. USUALLY IT IS A SPARSE
PLACE,
EXCEPT WHEN THERE IS A VOTE
HAPPENING. THERE NOT A LOT OF
SENATORS. IT IS RARE TO BE
SITTING IN SEAT LIKE THAT.
MANAGER SITTING AT THE TABLE.
IS AN INTERESTING FEEL OF THE
ROOM.
IS AN ANYTHING WE NORMALLY SEE
IN THE SENATE.
>> TELL US, WHO DO YOU SEE AND
WHY ARE THEY SIGNIFICANT?
>> Reporter: A FEW REPUBLICAN
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE OF COME
OVER. MEADOWS, LOUISE ALDEN AND
A FEW REPUBLICANS THAT THE TRUMP
WHITE HOUSE TAPPED AS PART OF
THEIR IMPEACHMENT TEAM. THEY
WERE SITTING ALONG THE RAIL OF
THE SENATE. THEY WERE WATCHING
THE SIDELINES. THE ARE NOT CITED
TO HAVE A ACTIVE ROLE.
I DO NOT SEE ANY DEMOCRAT
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE EXCEPT
MANAGERS ON THE FLOOR TODAY.
THEY WERE PACKED IN AT THE
TABLE, ALONG WITH A NUMBER OF
LAWYERS AND STAFFERS FROM THE
INTELLIGENCE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE.
>> TELL US ABOUT THE FLOW OF
TONIGHT AND THE REST OF THE
WEEK. AS WE SEE THE CONTOURS OF
HOW THE PROCESS MAY LOOK. WE
KNOW THERE IS ONE MORE
AMENDMENT, AT LEAST TONIGHT. WE
SEE THE AMENDMENT SENATOR
SCHUMER HAS PROPOSED. CALLING
FOR MICK MULVANEY TO BE
SUBPOENAED. THERE IS NO
INDICATION THAT THIS WOULD PASS.
IT LOOKS LIKE
T LEADER MITCH McCONNELL HAS
BEEN ABLE TO TABLE ALONG PARTY
LIENS. DO WE KNOW IF THERE'S
MORE TO COME TONIGHT? DOES IT GO
LONGER IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF
HOURS IT'S TELL US ABOUT
TOMORROW.
>> Reporter: THE FACT THAT WE
ARE ON WITNESS AND LIMIT, WE
MOVE ONTO THE NEXT PHASE. THERE
A COUPLE OF AMENDMENTS, WE ARE
DOING MULVANEY, WE MAY DO A
COUPLE MORE BEYOND THAT, EACH OF
THESE IS TAKING AN HOUR TO
PROCESS. MAYBE A LITTLE MORE, WE
ARE LOOKING TO BE HER A FEW MORE
HOURS TONIGHT. ONCE THE GENERAL
RECESS COMES TO A CLOSE. THERE
WILL BE A FINAL VOTE ON
O'CONNELL RESOLUTION. NOBODY
KNOWS HOW MANY MINUTES THEY WILL
START TO ADD. MITCH McCONNELL
HAS BEEN IT CLEAR HE'S NOT GOING
TO CONTINUE INTO TOMORROW. HE IS
QUESTIONED WHAT THE RULES WILL
BE. WE WILL BE HERE AS LONG AS
WE NEED TO BE TO GET THROUGH THE
DEMOCRATIC AMENDMENTS.
>> WE EXPECT TOMORROW FOR THINGS
TO KICKOFF IN TERMS OF SEEING
THE ARGUMENTS?
>> Reporter: THAT IS RIGHT. WE
DO KNOW THE HOUSE MANAGERS ARE
READY TO PRESENT THEIR CASE WHEN
THE TIME COMES. WE KNOW THAT
WILL BE TOMORROW. ADAM SCHIFF,
WE
>> TO HAVE THE FIRST WORD. AND
WILL MOVE THROUGH THE VARIOUS
MANAGERS TO PRESENT DIFFERENT
PARTS OF THE CASE.
UNDER MITCH McCONNELL'S
PROPOSAL, WE EXPECT IT TO BE
ADOPTED. THEY WILL 24 HOURS OVER
THREE DAYS. WE EXPECT WILL GO
FROM 1:00, CERTAINLY INTO THE
DINNER HOUR.
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, CONTINUING.
AND SATURDAY, AND THEN PROBABLY,
POSSIBLY MONDAY. YOU WILL SEE
THE PRESIDENT'S TEAM % THEIR
CASE.
>> COVERING CAPITOL HILL MORNING
UNTIL LATE AT NIGHT. THANKS FOR
COVERING. WE APPRECIATE IT.
>>> TO ME ON THE TELEPHONE IS
AMBER PHILLIPS, A REPORTER FOR
THE SIX. TRACKING THE INS AND
OUTS OF THE IMPEACHMENT PROCESS.
AMBER, NO REAL SURPRISES TODAY.
ONCE WE DID SEE LEADER McCONNELL
SHIFT HIS PROPOSAL, THE INITIAL
PROPOSAL THAT HE CAME UP WITH
YESTERDAY, GOVERNING THE TIME
AND HOW THINGS WOULD FLOW, A BIG
CHANGE TODAY RIGHT IS THE
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS GOT
STARTED. EVERYTHING ELSE HAS
BEEN FAIRLY PREDICTABLE AND
EXPECTED, RIGHT?
>> RIGHT, THAT IS EXACTLY RIGHT.
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING, WE SAW
THE RULES PACKAGE THAT WE SAW
MONDAY NIGHT. THE WAY THINGS
WERE, ARGUMENTS WERE GOING TO GO
UNTIL 1:00. AS SOON AS THEY
STARTED DEBATING,
THE RULES WERE TREAT A LITTLE
BIT. THE DEMOCRATS A LITTLE BIT
MORE PRIME TIME COVERAGE OF
THEIR ARGUMENTS OVER THE NEXT
FEW DAYS. UNTIL ABOUT EVIDENCE
TO BE SITTING AT CENTERS DESKS
WITHOUT A VOTE A COUPLE WEEKS
INTO THE TRIAL. IT WAS A
MEDIUM-SIZED DEAL, RATHER THAN A
BIG DEAL. IT DID NOT SEEM LIKE
THE BROAD OUTLINES OF THE TRIAL.
WHICH IS WHAT REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS ARE DEBATING NOW. THAT
IS, WILL WE HAVE WITNESSES AT
ALL? OR AT THE OUTSET. ARE WILL
THEY DECIDE THIS IN A COUPLE OF
WEEKS. EVEN THOUGH THERE ARE A
COUPLE SENATE REPUBLICANS, THE
SCENE OPEN TO HAVING TOP AIDES
TESTIFY. THERE STAYING IN LINE
WITH MITCH McCONNELL. AND SAYING
, I THINK YOU'RE MAKING A BIG
DEAL OUT OF NOTHING, DEMOCRATS.
TO HAVE ALL OF THESE VOTES
TODAY. OF COURSE THE WITNESSES
WERE EARLIER IN THE TRIAL.
>> AMY KLOBUCHAR IS TAKING
QUESTIONS RIGHT NOW. LET'S
LISTEN.
>> AND THEN TO THINK ABOUT THE
FACT, THAT THEY ARE WATCHING, AS
THIS PRESIDENT, PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S MESSES AROUND WITH IT.
WHAT THEY ARE WATCHING TO SEE.
THIS IS A COUNTRY THEY HAVE
LITERALLY INVADED AND THEY
LITERALLY HAVE THEIR EYES ON.
AND HE DOES NOT HELP THEM OUT
WITH AID. I THOUGHT ADAM SCHIFF
WAS EFFECTIVE.
>> Reporter: BERNIE SANDERS IS
CHARTERING A PLANE. YOU HAVE
PLANE?
>> I ACTUALLY HAVE MY FAMILY
THERE RIGHT NOW. THEY ARE REALLY
GOOD. AND THEY ARE OUT THERE. WE
JUST ANNOUNCED THREE NEW
ENDORSEMENTS TODAY FROM STATE
LEGISLATORS.
I HAVE LEGISLATORS AND FOUR
LEGISLATORS THAT ENDORSED ME IN
IOWA. WHAT DOES THAT MEAN? IT
MEANS I HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE OUT
THERE FOR ME IT IS NOT JUST
WINDOWDRESSING. THEY WERE OUT
TODAY AT THE IOWA STATE CAPITAL.
SPEAKING ABOUT THEIR SUPPORT FOR
ME. THAT WILL MATTER. I WILL DO
EVERYTHING THAT I CAN WEATHER IT
IS TOWN HALLS OR SKIPPING IN.
AND IF IT IS GETTING THERE WE
HAVE SUNDAY OFF. IT IS ALWAYS
BEEN MY PLAN. WE WERE PREPARED
FOR THIS. MY HUSBAND AND
DAUGHTER ARE THERE RIGHT NOW.
HAVE A CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY.
I THINK THE PEOPLE OF THIS
COUNTRY UNDERSTAND. NEARLY 70%
OF AMERICANS THINK THERE SHOULD
BE WITNESSES. THEY THINK THERE
SHOULD BE EVIDENCE. WHAT DOES
THAT MEAN TO ME?
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND I HAVE TO DO
MY JOB.
I AM SOMEONE THAT KEEPS LOOKING
UP MY COLLEAGUES. AND SOME OF
THEM ARE LOOKING DOWN.
LET'S SEE WHAT THEY DO AFTER A
FEW DAYS OF THIS. I THINK THE
HOUSE MANAGER DID A GREAT JOB
AND WE NEED TO LISTEN TO
EVIDENCE. THEY CANNOT HAVE A
CHILD WAS THERE WITNESSES. THAT
IS NOT HOW THIS WORKS.
>> THAT IS AMY KLOBUCHAR GOING
TO THE MEGAPHONE AND TAKING
QUESTIONS.
SHE CAN REACH VOTERS NOT JUST
AND I WENT, BUT AROUND THE
COUNTRY. WE HAVE BERNIE SANDERS
AND ELIZABETH WARREN. AND
MICHAEL BENNETT WHO IS RUNNING
AS WELL. IT WAS SO INTERESTING
TO HEAR SENATOR KLOBUCHAR PIVOT
BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN HER
GROUND GAME BACK TO THE QUESTION
OF WHAT HER DUTY IS, TO BE HERE
IN WASHINGTON AND BE PART OF THE
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS.
>>
SHE IS TRYING TO CREATE A SILVER
LINING OUT OF THE SITUATION FOR
HER. I AM PULLING OF THE
CALENDAR RIGHT NOW. LESS THAN 2
WEEKS FOR THE FIRST VOTING
PROCESS IN IOWA.
AFTER THAT, THERE IS A DEBATE
FOR NEW HAMPSHIRE. THE WEEK
AFTER THAT, IS THE NEW HAMPSHIRE
PRIORITY. IT IS ABSOLUTELY
CRUCIAL MOMENTS FOR AMY
KLOBUCHAR AND OTHER SENATORS
RUNNING FOR OFFICE. AND OF
COURSE, THERE ARE FOLKS IN THE
HUNT TO WIN IN IOWA. ALL THE
FOLKS ARE UP IN THE AIR RIGHT
NOW.
IOWA IS A STATE THAT VALUES ITS
PLACE IN THE CONTEST. IT
APPRECIATE SOME CANDIDATES ARE
IN YOUR LIVING ROOM. AT YOUR
CHURCH AND AT YOUR DINER.
PUTTING IN THE ENERGY TO WIN YOU
OVER. THIS IS A COMPLETELY NEW
DYNAMIC. AMY KLOBUCHAR IS TRY TO
HAVE A SMILE IN AND SAY I CAN
HAVE MY SURROGATES TALK TO
PEOPLE. AND I DO NOT KNOW MY
FAMILY WILL DRAW THE ST. CLOUD.
>>
THOSE ARGUING FOR PRESIDENT
TRUMP WILL ARGUE THE SAME
CANDIDATES. SAYING  YOU SHOULD
BE IN IOWA VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY
WENT  DEMOCRATS. THEY HAVE
REASON TO BE UPSET WITH THE
PROCESS. AMY KLOBUCHAR TWEETED
THIS IS MY CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY.
I CAN DO BOTH AND DO TWO THINGS
AT ONCE.
>> I THOUGHT WAS AN INTERESTING
MOMENT. ONE OF MY TAKEAWAYS FOR
THE WHITE HOUSE TEAM GET INTO
THE MICROPHONES IS A MADE A
PERSONAL.
THEY WENT AFTER ADAM SCHIFF. AND
OTHER HOUSE MANAGERS.
WAS A LITTLE PROFANITY ON THE
SENATE FLOOR AFTER THAT. THERE
TRY TO MAKE THIS PERSONAL IN A
WAY THAT TAKES IT TO A WHOLE NEW
LEVEL POLITICALLY.
TO REMIND VIEWERS THE CLINTON
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IS SEEN IS NOT
VERY POLITICAL AT ALL. TO THE
EXTENT IT COULD BE IN A
POLITICAL HOTTIE.
AMY KLOBUCHAR IS DOING THE BEST
YOU CAN TO MAKE MOMENT A
POSITIVE.
WE KNOW SHE HAS GOTTEN INTO SOME
BACK AND FORTH WITH PETE
BUTTIGIEG, A FORMER MAYOR OF A
SMALL TOWN, ABOUT EXPENSE AND
GENDER. SHE HAD A PROMINENT
MOMENT TODAY, BEING CALLED OUT
BY THE WHITE HOUSE LAWYERS. TO
SAY I TO GOVERN AND KEEP MY EYE
ON THE BALL. WHICH IS DEFEATING
TRUMP IN MORE WAYS THAN ONE.
>> DID ANYONE ASK AMY KLOBUCHAR
IF IT IS A FUTILE PROCESS. THEY
HAVE TAKEN THREE VOTES SO FAR ON
THE AMENDMENTS PROPOSED BY
SENATOR CHUCK SCHUMER. ALL HAVE
BEEN TABLED BY THE REPUBLICANS.
SHE BRUSHED IT OFF AND PUSHED
BACK ON IT. TO FOCUS ON THE NEED
FOR MORE INFORMATION. AMBER,
WHAT ARE THE POWER DYNAMICS, AS
YOU WATCH THE DEMOCRATS TRY TO
MAKE A CALL FOR MORE
INFORMATION, AND GET MORE
INFORMATION AND FODDER HERE. AND
REPUBLICANS ARE ABLE TO BRUSH IT
OFF AND VOTE ALONG PARTY LINES.
>> IS A GREAT QUESTION. THIS
AMENDMENT ARE POLITICAL
STATEMENTS. WE HAVE KNOWN FROM
THE VERY BEGINNING FROM IN THE
TRIAL STARTED,
WE TALK ABOUT THAT ROMNEY AND
SUSAN COLLINS MAY VOTE TO
SUBPOENA. NOBODY HAS LINED UP
WITH DEMOCRATS TO SUBPOENA OFF
THE BAT. THEY WANT TO HEAR FROM
DEMOCRATS TO ARGUE AGAINST
TRUMP. IT IS IN LINE WITH WHAT
MITCH McCONNELL WANTS. TO
CONVINCE SENATORS. I TALKED TO
IMPEACHMENT EXPERTS WHO SAID, A
MITCH McCONNELL HAS A MAJORITY
VOTE, HE CAN DO WHATEVER HE
WANTS TO SHAPE THE TRIAL WITH
THE RULES. SO FAR, HE HAS DONE
AN IMPRESSIVE JOB OF KEEPING
REPUBLICAN SENATORS IN LINE.
EVEN THOSE WHO MAY SPLIT IN THE
FUTURE. AND WE TALKED ABOUT
EARLIER, TO PUSH BACK AGAINST
HIM AGAINST CLOSED DOORS DOES
THE RULES. THE POWER DYNAMICS
ARE BUT DEMOCRATS ARE PLAIN TO
THE FIELD OF PUBLIC OPINION.
THAT DO NOT HAVE A LOT OF
OPTIONS TO CHANGE THE ACTUAL
TRIAL RULES RIGHT NOW.
>> AMBER, WHAT IS YOUR TAKE FOR
REPORTING AS WELL AS ANALYSIS.
WHAT IS YOUR TAKE ON HOW
DEMOCRATIC HOUSE MANAGERS ARE
PERFORMING VERSUS THE WHITE
HOUSE COUNSEL? DEMOCRATS HAVE
HAD AN ORGANIZED APPROACH. THEY
HAVE HAD VISUAL AID. THEY HAVE
HAD VIDEOS. THEY HAVE HAD
SCREENS.
IT IS NOT LIKE HAVING
THINGS LIKE THAT GIVE YOU A
GUARANTEED WIN. THEY HAVE
CLEARLY DONE THEIR HOMEWORK. AND
HAVE MEAT TO PUT ON THE BONES OF
WHAT THEY ARE ARGUING. IS
DIFFERENT THAN THE MESSAGE WE
GET FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
COUNSEL, WHICH IS MUCH MORE
ABOUT THE RHETORIC, RATHER THAN
LET ME LAY OUT THE FACTS, ABOUT
WHAT DEMOCRATS ARE ARGUING.
>> I THINK THAT IS EXACTLY
RIGHT. YOU SET IT FOR ME. I FEEL
LIKE HOUSE MANAGERS ARE
PREPARING FOR THIS ON WHAT SINCE
NANCY PELOSI GO TO MICROPHONE.
IN OF THE WHISTLEBLOWER
COMPLAINT EXISTED. IT IS A
FOREGONE CONCLUSION THE
DEMOCRATS WILL HAVE THE
MAJORITY.
SHE IS RIGHT HE HAS BEEN A
TARGET SINCE THAT PUBLIC PHASE
FROM REPUBLICANS, AND SENATE
REPUBLICANS WHO HAVE SAID, HE
KIND OF CONSTRUCT A SCAM AND
LED THE PROCESS HE IS A PUNCHING
BAG FOR REPUBLICANS BUT, THAT IS
A LOT OF WHAT WE HAVE BEEN
HEARING FROM WHITE HOUSE
COUNSEL. WILL BE INTERESTING TO
SEE, IF THEY HAVE ANY MORE
ARGUMENT THAT IS SPECIFIC TO THE
CHARGES DID TRUMP
WITHHOLD AID FROM UKRAINE WE
HAVE NOT HEARD THEM TALK ABOUT
THAT MUCH OTHER THAN TO SAY THIS
PROCESS HAVE BEEN A SCAM FROM
THE BEGINNING AND THE OTHER
HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE BEEN TODAY,
THEY DO APPEAR TO BE A UNIFIED
FRONT WILL HAVE BEEN VERY WELL
PREPARED FOR THIS MOMENT AND
THEY SAY, WE WERE VERY FAMILIAR
WITH ADAM SCHIFF, WE WERE
FAMILIAR WITH JERRY NADLER WE
HEARD VOICES AND THE LAST FEW
MONTHS, WE NOW SEE HIM, AND SHOW
HOW PREPARED SHE IS AND KEEP HER
STATEMENTS TIGHT AND CONCISE AND
TRYING TO DRAW CONCLUSIONS FROM
EVIDENCE THEY HAVE JUDY
ARGUMENTS AND DONE IMPEACHABLE
MISCONDUCT AND, WHEN SHE WAS
THERE,
A FEW HOURS AGO SHE TALKED ABOUT
HER EXPERIENCES WITH THE OTHER
IMPEACHMENT, THE NIXON
IMPEACHMENT AND SO, HAVE
SEASONED VOICES COMING TO THE
DEBATE STAND TODAY WITH
DOCUMENTS AND READY WITH THE
PROOF AND IT SHOWS THEY ARE
PREPARED NOW, WHEN THE DATA
MEASUREMENT WE WILL SEE IN THE
NEXT FEW DAYS. ARIGHT, RHONDA
COLEMAN ON CAPITOL HILL THANK
YOU, SO MUCH RED NATIONAL
REPORTER FOR THE POST JOINING
US, BY PHONE. YOU HAVE BEEN
TRACKING, DETAILS, THAT THE
LAWYERS FOR TRUMP HAVE BEEN
LAYING OUT AND FACT CHECKING
THEM IN REAL TIME, WATCHING TO
SEE THE SUBSTANCE OF WHAT THEY
HAVE BEEN DECLARING. WHAT ARE
YOUR THOUGHTS, SO FAR? MY MAIN
THOUGHT, THEY HAVE CLOSELY HAVE
RHETORIC DEPLOYED IN VARIOUS
DOCUMENTS AND WHICH IS TO SAY,
THE ATTORNEYS HAVE LARGELY
AVOIDED AND WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
REPUBLICANS COMING AROUND TO
TALKING MORE ABOUT THAT
ALLEGATIONS AND WE HAVE NOT SEEN
MUCH OF THAT AT ALL. WE HAVE
SEEN RHETORIC ABOUT THE PROCESS
ABOUT HOW DEMOCRATS DO WHAT THEY
OUGHT TO HAVE DONE, AND A YOU
AND I SPOKE ABOUT HOW THEY HAVE
REINFORCED AND AMPLE MICE THE
MESSAGE THAT TRUMP SOUGHT
HIMSELF THAT'S NOT ACCIDENTAL.
WE HAVE NOT HEARD FROM REALLY
ACTUALLY WHAT IS ALLEGED ABOUT
THE CALL AND THAT'S NOT
ACCURATE. THAT IS ALIGNED
RHETORIC AND I'M CURIOUS OVER
THE COURSE OF THIS, IF WE WILL
SEE THAT.
>> ARE YOU CURIOUS TO SEE WHO
TAKES WHAT ROLE?
>> WHAT WAS ON THE FIRST
EXCHANGE, THE TWO LEAD ATTORNEYS
, WENT BACK AND FORTH, THEY
REITERATED THE SAME POINT OVER
AND,
BASICALLY THEY SAID THE SAME
THINGS, IT WAS HARD TO
DIFFERENTIATE WHO IS DOING WHAT,
HERE? THEY DID SHAKE OUT ON THE
DEMOCRATIC SIDE I HAVE NOT SEEN
MUCH OF THAT ON THE SIDE OF THE
PRESIDENT AND, AGAIN, YOU KNOW,
THERE IS A GOD SEEN AS TO EIGHT,
IT IS FROM LAWYER AND ABSTRACT
AT THE SAME SIDE. THE ARGUMENT
WE'VE HEARD TODAY ARE ONES THAT
HAVE BEEN BROUGHT UP THIS TIME
BY THE PRESIDENT, TEAM WHERE ARE
THEY GOING WITH THIS? WHAT IS
THE STRATEGY. .MAC A LOT OF
TIMES, HAVE NOT HEARD FROM KEN
STARR, WE HAVE NOT HEARD FROM
DERSHOWITZ, LAY OUT FOR US LET
ME KNOW ABOUT HOW THEY WILL BE
INVOLVED?
>> THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION
OBVIOUSLY STAR HAS A NUMBER
SOMEONE OF EXPERIENCE IN DEALING
WITH IMPEACHMENT. PEOPLE ARE NO
DOUBT FAMILIAR WITH THAT FROM
THE CLINTON ERA. HIS ROLE WILL
BE LIMITED IN THE SENSE HE WILL
PRESENT AN ARGUMENT AGAINST THE
IMPEACHMENT BROADLY.
HE SAID COME HE WAS NOT PART OF
THE LEGAL TEAM THAT'S NOT REALLY
CLEAR. AGAIN, I THINK IT'S
LOVABLY SAFE TO ASSUME, STAR
WILL DO HEAVY LIFTING IN TERMS
OF THE RHETORICAL RESPONSES. BY
VIRTUE OF WHO HE IS AND WHAT IS
BACK ON THE BUT AGAIN, TODAY WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE A DEBATE ABOUT
RULES AND THAT IS GOING FURTHER
THAN THAT AND A LOT OF
DISCUSSIONS. THERE'S SOME
REPORTING SUGGESTED PERHAPS
TRUMP CAME IS CAUGHT OFFGUARD,
BY THAT. I DON'T KNOW. WE ARE
EXPERIENCING THIS WE WILL SEE
WHAT HAPPENS. WE ARE
EXPERIENCING IT TOGETHER WE WILL
HEAD BACK IN.
WE MISSED THIS MORNING AND, LAST
WEEK FOR A FAMILY ISSUE. HE IS
THERE NOW. SO, HE REPORTED,
TODAY ABOUT HOW AMERICANS ARE
DEALING AND OPINION POLLS ABOUT
THIS PROCESS. CAN YOU BREAK DOWN
INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT AMERICANS
WANT TO HEAR FROM HER WHAT THEY
THINK SHOULD HAPPEN, IN THIS
PROCESS? BREAKDOWN FOR US.
>> THERE WAS A POLL RELEASED
YESTERDAY WHICH FOUND VARIOUS
DETERMINATIONS. THEY BELIEVE
THERE SHOULD BE WITNESSES. IF
YOU GO INTO THAT YOU QUICKLY
REALIZE, PERHAPS THAT DOES NOT
SEEM, FOR EXAMPLE THERE'S A
SUBSEQUENT QUESTION WHY DO
DEMOCRATS [ INDISCERNIBLE ] WANT
A FAIR TRIAL OR ARE THEY NAILING
REPUBLICANS TO THE WELL? THEY
ARE TRYING TO HAMMER
REPUBLICANS. THEY WANT TO SEE
THE DEMOCRATIC WITNESSES. THEY
WERE TO SEE VERY SPECIFIC
WITNESSES MAYBE, JOE BIDEN. IF
YOU GO DEEPER INTO EACH OF THESE
POLLS, ANOTHER POLL CANNOT
TODAY, WHAT YOU SEE IS A PATTERN
WE HAVE SEEN OVER AND OVER AND
OVER AGAIN. WHICH IS
BY VERY SLIM MAJORITY AND, OR
HALF THE POPULATION BELIEVES
TRUMP SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM
OFFICE. THAT IS SPLIT HEAVILY
ALONG THE SAME PARTY LINES WE
HAVE SEEN SINCE TRUMP TOOK
OFFICE IN 2017. DEMOCRATS WANT
TO REMOVE HIM AND REPUBLICANS
ARE OPPOSED. INDEPENDENT LIVING
WITH DEMOCRATS. YET, ONE OF THE
THINGS, NATIONALLY, AND SWING
COUNTIES,
PEOPLE ARE MORE SUPPORTIVE OF
REMOVING TRUMP FROM OFFICE THE A
APPROVING OF HIS JOB PERFORMANCE
AND YET, THAT IS WHAT WE HAVE
SEEN AND I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT
MEANS. HAD
>> YET, I WONDER HOW MUCH SLEEP
AROUND STATES REPUBLICANS WILL
HAVE TO WAIT DISINFORMATION AND
THAT WILL BE LISTENING TO
CONSTITUENTS THE ASK QUESTIONS
OR DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT THE
PRESCRIBER SEEMS TO GET
WITNESSES AND HOW DOES THIS
PROCESS ABOUT FULLER BETTING.
CREEK WILL BE WATCHING?
>> SO, OBVIOUSLY THERE ARE
PEOPLE AT MITT ROMNEY REPRESENT
STATES THAT ARE NOT NECESSARILY
SUPER EXCITED ABOUT TRUMP. UTAH
HAD THE BEST WING FROM RED TO
BLUE IN 2016 THAT WITH THE
PENSION AND PART OF HAVING BEEN
RUNNING IN 2012. THAT'S ALSO A
FUNCTION OF THE GENERAL DISTASTE
FOR TRUMP.
I THINK EVERYBODY WILL PAY
ATTENTION AND WHEN I WILL BE
WATCHING TO SEE IF THERE'S ANY
SIGN OF ANY MOVEMENT AT ALL FROM
SOMEBODY WHO IS NOT IN ONE OF
THOSE DATES. IF THERE'S ANY
SENSE THAT ARE CRACKED SHOWING,
SO FAR EXTREMELY ROBUSTLY SIGNED
DEFENSE WHICH IS REALLY
DEPENDING ON CONSERVATIVE MEDIA
AND GROUNDS AT CRITICISM THAT
EXIST ARE ANY CRACKS WHO ARE NOT
NECESSARILY VERBAL, OBVIOUSLY
THAT WOULD BE SIGNIFICANT I'M
SKEPTICAL WE WILL SEE ANY SUCH
CRACK. SOMETHING WE WILL KEEP AN
EYE ON. WE'VE SEEN SO FAR
REPUBLICANS FINISH AND THREE
AMENDMENTS.
SCHUMER WAS TRYING TO GET
INFORMATION FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
AND STATE DEPARTMENT, FROM
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET,
BUT THEY WERE TABLED LONG
PARTY LINES WITH 53-47. THE NEXT
AMENDMENT THEY WILL BE DEBATING
OR ARGUING REALLY, IS THE
QUESTION OF WHETHER OR NOT, THE
ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF USED TO
HAVE A STRONG RELATIONSHIP THERE
AND PHILIP WHEN YOU MAKE OF THE
BACK-AND-FORTH PROCESS AND
SENATORS LISTENING
. WE ARE GETTING TO HEAR
DEMOCRATIC SIDES MAKING
ARGUMENTS AND REPUBLICANS READ
BUT AND VICE VERSA. ARE YOU
LEARNING ANYTHING ABOUT THE
GENERAL APPROACH ABOUT THE
PROCESS?
AS I SAID EARLIER, IT IS
INTERESTING HOW THE DEMOCRATIC
STRATEGY, HOW DO LITIGATE THE
IMPEACHMENT BROADLY AND NOT JUST
OPPOSE IT
. I THINK THAT IS IN PART A
RECOGNITION OF THE FACT THEY
WILL BE ONE OF THE MOST WATCHED
DAYS OF THE TRIAL IN ONE OF THE
MOST COVERED. WE SAW THAT, YOU
KNOW AND THAT SAID, I THINK THAT
IT'S IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER ONE
OF THE KEY AUDIENCES HERE, IN
THAT THE TRIAL PROBABLY MORE
THAN 1999 WITH CLINTON EITHER IS
WHAT IS PLAYED ON CABLE NEWS. I
AM NOT, I AM CYNICAL BUT
OBVIOUSLY, SOME OF WHAT, FOR
EXAMPLE TRUMP DEFENDERS ARE
DOING TODAY. WHAT WILL AIR ON
FOX NEWS AND YOU KNOW, BE SHARED
BY TRUMP SUPPORTERS, IN THE
SENSE OF THE PRESIDENT, THAT
REALLY IS GOING TO BE KEY.
POLLING DOES SUGGEST THAT PEOPLE
WHO ARE MORE CLOSELY CHIN THE
FOX NEWS ARE MORE LIKELY TO
REJECT THE IMPEACHMENT PROCESS.
THAT WILL BE THE KEY FOR TRUMP
KEEPING SENATORS IN LINE. IF
THERE'S NO MOVEMENT IN THE
REPUBLICAN BASE THEY ARE MUCH
MORE LIKELY
AND IF THERE IS NO MOVEMENT IN
THAT BASE, YOU KNOW, THERE IS NO
CONTRARY VOTES IS HEARD ON FOX
NEWS AS WELL, THAT IS A GOOD
TIME AND I THINK THAT'S THE
STRATEGY ON THEIR ENGINE ON THE
DEMOCRATS I DID SOMETHING
SIMILAR. LESS CRITICAL THAT THEY
GET COVERED AND BUT, I THINK IT
PART OF THE STRATEGY TO GET THAT
MESSAGE OUT THERE BROADLY, NOT
TO THE SENATORS, IN THE RAMP. WE
HAVE BEEN TALKING TO THE MEMBERS
BE ATTENTIVE AND HOPEFULLY, NOT
FALL ASLEEP TOO OFTEN. WE ARE
WATCHING CLOSELY TO SEE IF
ANYBODY DOES THAT. THEY STAY
FOCUSED AND THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
JOHN ROBERTS NEEDS TO STAY
FOCUSED HE'S USED TO BEING ABLE
TO ENTER CHECK. HE IS A MUCH
MORE DYNAMIC, INTERACTIVE
EXPERIENCE BRITT TELL US ABOUT
HIS ROLE AND WHAT YOU ARE
WATCHING.
>>
HE MAYBE GOT TIPS FROM CLARENCE
THOMAS. IT'S PROBABLY MUCH
EASIER FOR HIM IF ANYBODY IS
USED TO SITTING AND LISTENING.
HE HAS HARDLY SPOKEN A WORD. IN
A WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE HE HAS
TAKEN A SEAT BACK AGAIN WE WILL
HAVE TO WATCH FOR OURSELVES.
THANK YOU, SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME, PHILIP. LET'S GO BACK.
>> MY NAME IS JEFFRIES, AND THE
HONOR OF REPRESENTING, THE
EIGHTH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK AND BROOKLYN AND
QUEENS. IT'S ONE OF THE MOST
DIVERSE DISTRICTS, IN THE
NATION. IN FACT BEEN TOLD THAT
THE NINTH MOST AFRICAN-AMERICAN
DISTRICT IN THE COUNTRY AND THE
16th MOST JEWISH. ON THE HILL,
SOME FOLKS HAVE SAID, IS THAT
COMPLICATED? IS MY FRED LYNN
GOLDENBERG SAYS AT HOME, YOU GOT
THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS. YOU SEE
IN AMERICA, DIVERSITY IS A
STRENGTH. IT IS NOT A WEAKNESS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT BINDS US
TOGETHER, ALL OF US. AS
AMERICANS, REGARDLESS OF RACE,
REGARDLESS OF RELIGION REGARDS
THE REGION AND SEXUAL
ORIENTATION, REGARDLESS OF
GENDER, IS THAT, WE BELIEVE IN
THE RULE OF LAW. WE BELIEVE IN
THE IMPORTANCE OF A FAIR TRIAL.
WE STRONGLY SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT INCLUDING, WITH
RESPECT TO MICK MULVANEY. WHO
HAS EVER HEARD OF A TRIAL, WITH
NO WITNESSES?
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT SOME ARE
CONTEMPLATING HERE TODAY. THIS
AMENDMENT WOULD ADDRESS THE
FUNDAMENTAL FLAW IT WOULD ENSURE
THE TRIAL INCLUDES TESTIMONY
FROM A KEY WITNESS THAT
PRESIDENTS ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF
AND HEAD OF THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET. MICK
MULVANEY. IT WOULD
MAKE SURE THE SENATE WOULD
CONSIDER HIS TESTIMONY,
IMMEDIATELY. LET'S DISCUSS WHY
THEY NEED TO HEAR FROM MULVANEY
SO CRITICAL. THE RESOLUTION
UNDERCUTS MORE THAN 200 YEARS,
SENATE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
PRACTICE. IT DEPARTS FROM EVERY
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL CONDUCTED TO
DATE. IT GOES AGAINST THE SENATE
ON
LONG-STANDING IMPEACHMENT RULE
WHICH CONTEMPLATES THE
POSSIBILITY OF NEW WITNESS
TESTIMONY. IN FACT, IT DEPARTS
FROM ANY CRIMINAL OR CIVIL TRIAL
PROCEDURE, IN AMERICA. WHY
SHOULD THIS PRESIDENT BE HELD,
TO A DIFFERENT STANDARD?
SECOND, THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT
FOR WITNESS TESTIMONY, IS
NECESSARY IN LIGHT OF THE
PRESIDENT DETERMINED EFFORT TO
BURY THE EVIDENCE, AND TO RUB
HIS CORRUPT ABUSE OF POWER. THE
HOUSE DRIED, TO GET
MR. MULVANEY'S TESTIMONY. WE
SUBPOENAED HIM. TOGETHER WITH
OTHER KEY WITNESSES, NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISER JOHN BOLTON,
SENIOR WHITE HOUSE AIDE ROBERT
BLAIR, OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET FACIAL MICHAEL DUFFY AND
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNSELOR, DON
EISENBERG. THEY WERE CALLED TO
TESTIFY BEFORE THE HOUSE, AS
PART OF THIS PIECE GO
. BUT PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
DETERMINED TO HIDE FROM THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, WHAT THEY HAD
TO SAY. THE PRESIDENT DIRECTED
THE ENTIRE EXECUTIVE BRANCH, AND
ALL IS TOP AIDES AND ADVISORS TO
DEFINE ALL REQUESTS, FOR THEIR
TESTIMONY. THAT, CANNOT BE
ALLOWED, TO STAND.
MR. MULVANEY IS A HIGHLY
RELEVANT WITNESS IN THIS TRIAL.
MR. MULVANEY WAS AT THE CENTER
OF EVERY STAGE OF THE PRESIDENT
SUBSTANTIAL PRESSURE CAMPAIGN,
AGAINST UKRAINE. BASED ON THE
EXTENSIVE EVIDENCE THE HOUSE DID
OBTAIN, IT IS CLEAR THAT
MULVANEY WAS CRUCIAL IN PLANNING
AND EXECUTING LIMITATION AND
CARRYING OUT THE COVER UP.
EMAILS AND TESTIMONY SHALL, MR.
MULVANEY WAS IN THE LOOP ON THE
DECISION.
THE WHITE HOUSE LEADING ON
UKRAINE'S ENOUGH OF
INVESTIGATION BENEFICIAL TO THE
PRESIDENT'S REELECTION PROSPECT.
HE WAS CLOSELY INVOLVED IN
IMPLEMENTING THE PRESIDENT
WILL CALL ON SECURITY ASSISTANT
AND SUBSEQUENTLY, ADMITTED, THAT
THE FUNDING WAS WITHHELD THE
BOOK PRESSURE ON UKRAINE. TO
CONDUCT PHONY POLITICAL
INVESTIGATION THAT THE PRESIDENT
WANTED. PHONY POLITICAL
INVESTIGATION. A TRIAL WOULD NOT
BE COMPLETE WITHOUT THE
TESTIMONY OF MICK MULVANEY  MAKE
NO MISTAKE THE EVIDENTIARY
RECORD WE HAVE BUILT, IS
POWERFUL AND CAN CLEARLY
ESTABLISH THE PRESIDENT'S GUILT
ON BOTH OF THE ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT. IT'S HARDLY
COMPLETE. THE RECORD COMES TO
YOU WITHOUT TESTIMONY OF
MR. MULVANEY, AND OTHER
IMPORTANT WITNESSES.  AND, THAT
BRINGS ME TO ONE, FINAL
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATION. THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE AGREE, THAT
THERE CANNOT BE A FAIR TRIAL,
WITHOUT
HEARING FROM WITNESSES WHO HAVE
RELEVANT INFORMATION TO PROVIDE.
THE CONSTITUTION, OUR DEMOCRACY,
THE SENATE, THE PRESIDENT, AND
MOST IMPORTANTLY, THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE, DESERVE A FAIR TRIAL.
FAIR TRIAL REQUIRES WITNESSES.
IN ORDER TO PROVIDE THE TRUTH,
THE WHOLE TRUTH, AND NOTHING BUT
THE TRUTH. THAT'S WHY THIS
AMENDMENT, SHOULD BE ADOPTED.
BEFORE WE DISCUSS MIX KNOWLEDGE
OF THE PRESIDENTS GEOPOLITICAL
TAKEDOWN, IT IS IMPORTANT TO
THAT CANNOT BE A TRIAL BY
WITNESSES, IT WOULD BE A
STUNNING DEPARTURE FROM THIS
INSTITUTION, AND PRACTICE. THIS
DISTINGUISHED BODY, HAS
CONDUCTED 15 IMPEACHMENT TRIALS.
ALL, HAVE INCLUDED WITNESSES.
SOMETIMES THOSE TRIALS INCLUDED
A HANDFUL OF WITNESSES.
OTHER TIMES, THEY INCLUDED
DOZENS, IN ONE CASE THERE WERE
OVER 100 DIFFERENT WITNESSES. AT
THE SLIDESHOWS,
THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF WITNESSES
TO APPEAR, AND A SENATE
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL, 33.
IN A LIST THREE OF THOSE
INSTANCES INCLUDING THE
IMPEACHMENT OF BILL CLINTON,
WITNESSES APPEARED BEFORE THE
SENATE WHO HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY
APPEARED, FOR THE HOUSE. THAT'S
BECAUSE THE SENATE, THIS GREAT
INSTITUTION,
IS ALWAYS TAKEN ITS
RESPONSIBILITY TO ADMINISTER A
FAIR TRIAL SERIOUSLY. THE SENATE
HAS ALWAYS TAKEN ITS DUTY TO
OBTAIN EVIDENCE, INCLUDING
WITNESS TESTIMONY SERIOUSLY. THE
SENATE HAS ALWAYS TAKEN THE
OBLIGATION TO EVALUATE THE
PRESIDENT CONDIT BASED ON THE
FULL BODY OF AVAILABLE
INFORMATION SERIOUSLY. THIS IS
THE ONLY WAY TO ENSURE,
FUNDAMENTAL FAIRNESS FOR
EVERYONE INVOLVED. RESPECTFULLY,
IT'S IMPORTANT TO HONOR THAT
UNBROKEN PRESENT TODAY SO THAT
MR. MULVANEY'S TESTIMONY WITHOUT
FEAR OR FAVOR, AS TO WHAT YOU
MIGHT SAY, CAN INFORM THIS
DISTINGUISHED BODY OF AMERICANS.
THIS AMENDMENT IS IMPORTANT TO
COUNTER THE PRESIDENT'S
DETERMINATION TO BURY THE
EVIDENCE OF HIS HIGH CRIME AND
MISDEMEANORS.
AS WE EXPLAINED IN DETAIL TODAY,
DESPITE CONSIDER EVIDENCE BY THE
HOUSE, TRUMP DIRECTED THE ENTIRE
EXECUTIVE BRANCH, TO EXECUTE A
COVER UP. HE HAS ORDERED THE
ENTIRE ADMINISTRATION, TO IGNORE
THE POWERS OF CONGRESS AND ABLE
BRANCH OF GOVERNMENT TO
INVESTIGATE HIS OFFENSES IN A
MANNER THAT IS UNPRECEDENTED IN
AMERICAN HISTORY. IT WAS 71
REQUESTED BY THE HOUSE FOR
RELEVANT EVIDENCE. IN RESPONSE,
THE WHITE HOUSE PRESUMED ZERO
DOCUMENTS. 71 REQUEST,
ZERO DOCUMENTS. PRESIDENT TRUMP
IS PERSONALLY POSSIBLE FOR [
INDISCERNIBLE ] THE SENATE OF
INFORMATION IMPORTANT TO
CONSIDER IN THIS TRIAL. THIS
POINT CANNOT BE OVERSTATED. WHEN
FACED WITH CONGRESSIONAL
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY PROCESS SET
FOR THE BY THE FRAMERS OF THE
CONSTITUTION AND ARTICLE NUMBER
ONE, THE PRESIDENT REFUSED TO
COMPLAIN ANY RESPECT. HE ORDERED
HIS SENIOR AIDE, TO FALL IN
LINE. AS SHOWN ON THE SLIDE AS A
RESULT OF TRUMP'S OBSTRUCTION,
12 KEY WITNESSES INCLUDING MR.
MULVANEY, REFUSED TO APPEAR FOR
TESTIMONY AND THE HOUSES
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY. NOBODY HAS
HEARD WHAT THEY HAVE TO SAY.
THESE WITNESSES INCLUDE CENTRAL
FIGURES IN THE ABUSE OF POWER,
CHARGE AND ARTICLE 1. WHAT IS
THE PRESIDENT HIDING? EQUALLY
TROUBLESOME, PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
HIS ADMINISTRATION DID NOT MAKE
ANY ATTEMPT TO REACH A
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION WITH
THE HOUSE OR COMPROMISE
REGARDING ANY DOCUMENT REQUEST
OR WHEN A SUBPOENA. WHY? BECAUSE
PRESIDENT DONALD JOHN TRUMP, WAS
NOT INTERESTED IN COOPERATING,
HE WAS PLOTTING TO COVER UP.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO TAKE A STEP
BACK AND THINK ABOUT WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS DOING.
COMPLETED TOTAL OBSTRUCTION IS
AN ESTIMATE AND IN AMERICAN
HISTORY. EVEN NIXON, HER SPEECH
GO INCLUDED OBSTRUCTION OF
CONGRESS DID NOT BLOCK AIDES
FROM TESTIFYING IN FRONT OF
CONGRESS DURING THE WATERGATE
HEARINGS. IN FACT, HE PUBLICLY
URGED WHEN ALLSTATE TO TESTIFY.
REMEMBER THOSE WITNESSES WHO
CAME IN FRONT OF THE BODY? LOOK
AT THE SCREEN.
JOHN DEAN, THE FORMER WHITE
HOUSE COUNSEL TESTIFIED FOR
MULTIPLE DAYS, I WAS PURSUANT TO
A SUBPOENA. HR HALDEMAN NIXON'S
FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF WAS OF THE
UNIT AND TESTIFIED. ALEXANDER
BUTTERFIELD REVEALED THE
EXISTENCE OF THE TAPES. HE
TESTIFIED PUBLICLY BEFORE THE
SENATE. AND SO, DID SEVERAL
OTHERS TRUMP COMPLETE AND TOTAL
OBSTRUCTION MADE RICHARD NIXON
LOOK LIKE A CHOIR BOY.
TWO OTHER PRESIDENTS HAVE BEEN
TRIED BEFORE THE SENATE. HOW DID
THEY CONDUCT THEMSELVES? WILLIAM
JEFFERSON CLINTON, ANDREW
JOHNSON DID NOT MARK ANY
WITNESSES FROM PARTICIPATING IN
THE SENATE TRIAL. PRESIDENT
TRUMP BY CONTRAST REFUSES TO
PERMIT RELEVANT WITNESSES FROM
TESTIFYING TO THIS VERY DAY.
MANY OF CLINTON'S WHITE HOUSE
AIDES TESTIFIED IN FRONT OF
CONGRESS. EVEN BEFORE THE
COMMENCEMENT OF FORMAL
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS. DURING
VARIOUS INVESTIGATION THE HOUSE
AND SENATE HEARD FOR MORE THAN
TWO DOZEN WHITE HOUSE AIDES
INCLUDING THE WHITE HOUSE
COUNSEL. THE FORMER CHIEF OF
STAFF AND MULTIPLE SENIOR
ADVISORS TO CLINTON. PRESIDENT
CLINTON HIMSELF GAVE TESTIMONY
ON CAMERA AND UNDER OATH. HE
ALLOWED THE MOST SENIOR ADVISOR
INCLUDING MULTIPLE CHIEF OF
STAFF AND WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL TO
TESTIFY.
THAT INVESTIGATION LED TO HIS
IMPEACHMENT. AS YOU CAN SEE IN
THE CHART, TESTIMONY WAS
DELIVERED TO THE SENATE.
THERE WERE NO MISSING WITNESSES
THAT DEFIED SUBPOENAS. NO AIDES
WHO HAD PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF
THE CONDUCT WERE DIRECTED TO
STAY SILENT BY CLINTON. HAVE AN
ENTIRELY DIFFERENT SITUATION IN
THIS CASE. WE ARE SEEKING
WITNESSES THE PRESIDENT HAS
BLOCK FROM TESTIFYING.
APPARENTLY, PRESIDENT TRUMP
THINKS HE CAN DO WITH NO OTHER
PRESENT DOES BEFORE HIM, HAS
ATTEMPTED TO DO COME IN SUCH A
BRAZEN FASHION. ABOVE THE LAW
AND HE HIDES THE TRUTH. HE HIDES
THE TRUTH FROM THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE THAT CANNOT BE ALLOWED TO
STAND. LET ME ADDRESS BEDROCK
PRINCIPLES ABOUT CONGRESSES
AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT
INVESTIGATION.
POWERS OF INQUIRY ARE AT THEIR
STARTERS DURING ATTIC
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDING. THIS
THIS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN
ARTICLE 1. BILLY HUNDRED 40
YEARS AGO, THE SUPREME COURT
RECOGNIZED, THAT WHEN THE HOUSE
OR SENATE IS DETERMINING A
QUESTION OF IMPEACHMENT, THERE
IS NO REASON TO DOUBT THE RIGHT
TO COMPEL THE ATTENDANCE OF
WITNESSES. IN THE SAME MANNER
AND TO THE USE OF THE SAME NAME
THAT COURTS OF JUSTICE CAN AND
IN LIKE CASES. OUR NATIONS
FOUNDERS AND GREATEST LEGAL
MINDS RECOGNIZE THESE PRINCIPLES
EARLY ON. THE SUPREME COURT
JUSTICE JOAQUIN SMITH  EXPLAINED
THE PRESIDENT, SHOULD NOT HAVE
THE POWER, OF PREVENTION OF
THOROUGH INVESTIGATION OF
MISCONDUCT.
PRESIDENT TRUMP, CANNOT FUNCTION
AS JUDGE, JURY AND EXECUTIONER
OF OUR DEMOCRACY. IT WAS NOT
JUST THE COURT WHO CONFIRM THIS,
FOR US. SOME OF OUR NATIONS
LEADING PUBLIC SERVANTS.
REPRESENTATIVE JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
SPEAKING ON THE FLOOR OF THE
HOUSE AFTER SHE HAD SERVED AS
PRESIDENT. HE EXPLAINED, WHAT
MOCKERY WOULD IT BE, FOR THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES, TO SAY, THAT THE HOUSTON
OF THE POWER OF IMPEACHMENT,
EXTENDING EVEN TO THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES, HIMSELF,
AND YET TO SAY THAT THE HOUSE
HAD NOT THE POWER TO OBTAIN THE
EVIDENCE AND PROOF ON WHICH
THEIR IMPEACHMENT WAS BASED.
HAMILTON, STORY, ADAMS AND
OTHERS HAVE RECOGNIZED, THE
PRESIDENT CANNOT INSULATE
HIMSELF FROM CONGRESSES
INVESTIGATION OF HIS WRONGDOING.
THE PRESIDENT CAN DECIDE WHAT
EVIDENCE IS PRESENTED AT HIS OWN
TRIAL THAT WAS FUNDAMENTALLY
NULLIFIED THE CONSTITUTIONAL
POWER OF IMPEACHMENT. THIS
MOMENT IS IMPORTANT, BECAUSE
RESIDENT TRUMP SIMPLY CANNOT BE
ALLOWED TO HIDE THE TRUTH. NO
OTHER PRESIDENT HAS DONE IT. THE
SUPREME COURT DOESN'T ALLOW IT.
THE PRESIDENT, IS NOT ABOVE THE
LAW. WITNESSES, MATTER.
DOCUMENTS, MATTER. EVIDENCE,
MATTERS. THE TRUTH, MATTERS. WE
NOW TURN TO THE
THIRD JUSTIFICATION FOR THIS
MEME. COUNTRIES THIS MONEY IS
CRITICAL IN DETERMINING THE CASE
FOR REMOVAL. THE MAN IS
INTIMATELY INVOLVED IN KEY
STAGES OF THIS EXTRAORDINARY
ABUSE OF POWER. PRESIDENT TRUMP
KNOWS THIS. WHY ELSE WOULD HE BE
TRYING SO HARD, TO PREVENT MICK
MULVANEY  FROM TESTIFYING BEFORE
YOU?
THERE ARE AT LEAST FOUR REASONS
WHY MULVANEY'S TESTIMONY IS
CRITICAL. TO BEGIN WITH THAT'S
ACTING WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF
STAFF AND HEAD OF THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET MICK
MULVANEY HAS FIRSTHAND KNOWLEDGE
ABOUT  PRESIDENT TRUMP AND HIS
EFFORTS TO SHAKE DOWN UKRAINE
AND PRESSURE THE NEW PRESIDENT
INTO ANNOUNCING, PHONY
INVESTIGATIONS.
MR. MULVANEY WAS IN THE LOOP AT
EACH CRITICAL STAGE OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S SCHEME. HE WAS
IN THE LOOP IN THE PLANNING OF
THE SCHEME. HE WAS IN THE LOOP,
AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION. HE WAS
IN THE LOOP, WHEN THE STEAM FELL
APART.
HE EVEN ADMITTED PUBLICLY THAT
THE AIDE WAS
WITHHELD IN ORDER TO PRESSURE
UKRAINE INTO ANNOUNCING THE
INVESTIGATION IS DESIGNED TO
ELEVATE THE PRESIDENT'S
POLITICAL STANDING. MR. MULVANEY
, PERHAPS MORE THAN ANY OTHER
ADMINISTRATION, WITNESS
ACCEPTING THE PRESIDENT, HAS
FIRSTHAND INSIGHT INTO THE
DECISION TO WITHHOLD HUNDRED $91
MILLION IN MILITARY AND SECURITY
AID TO OF POTABLE UKRAINE
WITHOUT JUSTIFICATION. INDEED,
OUR INVESTIGATION REVEALED, THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP PERSONALLY
ORDERED, MR. MULVANEY, TO
EXECUTE THE FREEZE IN JULY, 2019
.
MR. MULVANEY HOLDS A SENIOR
STAFF POSITION AT THE WHITE
HOUSE. HE'S A MEMBER OF TRUMP'S
CABINET . HE IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
TRUMP'S TEAM AT 1600
PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE. HE REMAINS
THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET WHICH
IMPLEMENTED THE HOLD ON THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE IN VIOLATION
OF THE LAW.
IN SHORT, RESPECTFULLY THE
SENATE'S RESPONSIBILITY TO
CONDUCT A COMPLETE AND FAIR
TRIAL, THE MAN, THAT MR.
MULVANEY TESTIFY,. HIS TESTIMONY
IS CRITICAL, BECAUSE OF HIS
KNOWLEDGE OF THE PLANNING OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ABUSE OF POWER
AMBASSADOR GORDON THE WAS
AMBASSADOR TO THE EUROPEAN UNION
TESTIFIED THAT THERE WAS A QUID
PRO QUO. AMBASSADOR SONDLAND IS
NOT SO COLD NEVER TRUMPER. MR.
SONDLAND GAVE $1 MILLION
TO PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
INAUGURATION. HE TESTIFIED THAT
EVERYBODY THAT EVERYBODY WAS IN
THE LOOP AND IT WAS NO SECRET
WHAT WAS GOING ON. IN FACT, AS
EARLY AS MAY 2019
WAS COORDINATING ON UKRAINE
MATTERS, WITH MR. MULVANEY.
HERE'S WHAT DAVID HOLMES AN
OFFICIAL AT THE EMBASSY IN
UKRAINE HAS TO SAY ON THAT
MATTER.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND MANDATE IS
THE ACCREDITED AMBASSADOR TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION DID NOT COVER
INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS LIKE
NONMEMBERS LIKE UKRAINE REMAIN
CLEAR HAD DIRECT FREQUENT ACCESS
TO PRESIDENT TRUMP AND CHIEF OF
STAFF MICK MULVANEY AND
PORTRAYED  HIMSELF AS THE
CONDUIT TO THE PRESIDENT AND MR.
MULVANEY. AFTER THE U.S.
DELEGATION, RETURNED FROM THE
INAUGURATION OF THE NEW
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT, IN APRIL,
THEY WERE ABLE TO SECURE A
MEETING WITH TRUMP. THEY BRIEFED
HIM ON THE TRIP AND IN PART
BECAUSE OF AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S
CONNECTION, THE MICK MULVANEY
MULVANEY.  THEN, DURING THE
GENE, 18th 2019 MEETING,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND INFORMED
SECURITY COUNCIL SENIOR DIRECTOR
DR. FIONA HILL, THAT HE WAS IN
CHARGE OF UKRAINE. AND,
HE HAD BEEN BRIEFING SENIOR
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS, INCLUDING
MR. MULVANEY. ABOUT HIS EFFORTS
TO UNDERTAKE, A DOMESTIC
POLITICAL ERRAND IN UKRAINE.
HERE IS DR. HILL, EXPLAINING
THIS HERSELF.
>> I WAS UPSET WITH HIM, HE WAS
NOT FULLY TELLING US ABOUT ALL
THE READINGS HE WAS HAVING.
ESSENTIALLY, I'M BRIEFING THE
PRESIDENT. I'M BRIEFING TO FIRST
DRAFT MULVANEY. I'M BRIEFING
POMPEO. WHO ELSE TO HAVE TO DEAL
WITH? THE POINT IS, WE HAVE A
ROBUST AGENCY THAT DEALS WITH
UKRAINE. IT INCLUDES AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR. IT INCLUDES A LOAD OF
HUNDRED PEOPLE. IT STRUCK ME
YESTERDAY, WHEN HE GOT UP ON THE
SCREEN THAT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
EMAILS, HE SAID, THESE ARE
PEOPLE THAT NEED TO KNOW HE WAS
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT. HE WAS BEING
INVOLVED IN A DOMESTIC POLITICAL
ERRAND. WE WERE BEING INVOLVED
IN NATIONAL SECURITY FOREIGN
POLICY. DOES TWO THINGS
DIVERSIONS. THERE IS MORE. MUCH
MORE. MONTHS LATER, TRUMP
NATIONAL GERTY ADVISOR, AT THE
TIME, PRESIDENT TRUMP, TOLD DR.
HILL, TWO CHILDREN NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNSELOR, THAT HE WAS
NOT PART OF WHATEVER DRUG DEAL,
SONDLAND AND MULVANEY, WERE
COOKING UP.
HE MADE THAT STATEMENT AFTER
SONDLAND, SPECIFICALLY SAID, HE
HAD A DEAL, WITH MR. MULVANEY TO
SCHEDULE A WHITE HOUSE VISIT FOR
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY IF UKRAINE
ANNOUNCED TWO PHONY
INVESTIGATIONS INVOLVING THE
BIDENS, AND 2016 ELECTION
INTERFERENCE. INVESTIGATIONS
WERE SOUGHT BY PRESIDENT DONALD
JOHN TRUMP. HERE IS THE HILLS
TESTAMENT DISCUSSED IN THE DRUG
DEAL HE HAD WITH MULVANEY. WHEN
I CAME IN, HE WAS SAYING LOOK,
WE HAVE A DEAL HERE AND THERE
WILL BE A MEETING OF A DEAL HERE
WITH CHIEF OF STAFF MULVANEY
AND THERE WILL BE MEETING IF THE
UKRAINIANS OPEN UP OR ANNOUNCE
INVESTIGATIONS AND INTO 2016.
BUT THIS POINT HAVEN'T HEARD MR.
GIULIANI OVER AND OVER AGAIN
SECOND ALDER ISSUES BUT THIS
POINT IT WAS CLEAR
HE RETURNED TO THE PARTISAN
GIULIANI WAS LENA'S OUT THERE. I
CAN SEE WHY HE WAS ALARMED. HE
SAID, THERE'S SAYS INAPPROPRIATE
. WE CANNOT BE INVOLVED IN THE.
THAT MEANT THE REFERENCED
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN SONDLAND AND MULVANEY
WAS SO UPSETTING THAT DR. HILL
REPORTED IT TO NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL LEGAL ADVISORS. HERE IS
THE TESTIMONY OF DR. HILL
EXPLAINING THESE PARTICULAR
CONCERNS. HE WAS MAKING A STRONG
POINT HE WANTED TO KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT WAS SAID. WHEN I CAME BACK
AND RELATED TO HIM HE HAD VERY
SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS FOR ME.
THE SPECIFIC INSTRUCTION WAS
HAVE TO GO TO THE LAWYERS, JOHN
ISON BERG THE SENIOR COUNSEL AND
YOU TELL EISENBERG I AM NOT PART
OF THIS WHATEVER DRUG DEAL THAT
MULVANEY AND SONDLAND ARE
COOKING UP. CHECK WHAT DID YOU
UNDERSTAND THAT TO MEAN? GET
BACK TO ME THAT INVESTIGATIONS
WERE MEETING.
>> DID YOU SPEAK TO LAWYERS?
WHAT I DID. SONDLAND'S TESTIMONY
NOT ONLY CORROBORATE DR. PHIL'S
ACCOUNT, HE SAID THAT MICK
MULVANEY MULVANEY  THE SUBJECT
OF THIS AMENDMENT SHOULD APPEAR
BEFORE THE SENATE. IF WE ARE
GOING TO HAVE A FREE AND FAIR
TRIAL, SONDLAND SAYS MICK
MULVANEY  KNEW ALL ABOUT IT.
WHEN I WANT TO ASK YOUR BODY
MAKES REFERENCE TO DRUG DEAL BY
YOU AND MULVANEY. IS THE
REFERENCE DONE WHEN I ASK YOU
ABOUT. YOU HAVE TESTIFIED THAT
MICK MULVANEY WAS AWARE  OF
THOSE QUID PRO QUO OF THIS
CONDITION THAT THEY HAD TO MEET
ANNOUNCING THE PUBLIC
INVESTIGATION TO GET THE WHITE
HOUSE MEETING. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> YEAH. A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE
AWARE OF IT. INCLUDING GENTRY?
CHECK THE DOCUMENTS ALSO
HIGHLIGHT EXTENSIVE INVOLVEMENT
OF MICK MULVANEY  IN THE
GEOPOLITICAL SHAKEDOWN. EMAIL
MESSAGES SUMMARIZED DURING THE
SWORN TESTIMONY IS THAT HE
INFORMED MR. MULVANEY AS WELL AS
SECRETARY POMPEO AND  SECRETARY
[ INDISCERNIBLE ] OF HIS EFFORTS
TO PERSUADE PRESIDENT ZALESKI TO
ANNOUNCE INVESTIGATION DESIRED
BY PRESIDENT TRUMP. FOR EXAMPLE
AS SHOWN ON THE SCREEN, ON JULY
19th AMBASSADOR SONDLAND EMAILED
SEVERAL TOP ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIALS, INCLUDING MR.
MULVANEY STATING HE HAD TALKED
TO PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO HELP
PREPARE HIM FOR PHONE CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP. HE REPORTED
THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY THE PLAN
TO ENSURE TRUMP
THAT HE INTENDS TO RUN UP A
TRANSPARENT INVESTIGATION, AND
WILL TURN OVER EVERY STONE.
SONDLAND MADE CLEAR IN HIS
TESTIMONY HE WAS REFERRING TO
THE BIDEN 2016
ELECTION INTERFERENCE
INVESTIGATION THAT WORKS AS A
MENTIONED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP ON
THE JULY 20 THE PHONE CALL. MR.
MULVANEY I ASKED  HIM TO SET IT
UP. WHAT EXACTLY DID MR.
MULVANEY KNOW ABOUT THE
UKRAINIAN COMMITMENT TO TURN
OVER EVERY STONE? WHEN DID HE
KNOW? THESE AND MANY OTHER
QUESTIONS WITH OUR ANSWERS.
UNDER OATH FROM MR. MULVANEY.
MR. MULVANEY IS ALSO  A SEXUAL
FIGURE WITHOUT HE IMPLEMENTED
THE PRESSURE CAMPAIGN. ACCORDING
TO PUBLIC REPORTS AND WITNESS
TESTIMONY, MR. MULVANEY WAS
DEEPLY INVOLVED  WITH
IMPLEMENTING THE SCHEME AND
INCLUDING THE LAWFUL WHITE HOUSE
FREEZE ON $391 MILLION IN AID TO
UKRAINE. BUT THIS,
IS NOT JUST OF THE PEOPLE.
THIS IS THE JUST OF THE PEOPLE
FINGERING MULVANEY. HE HAS
HIMSELF, ADMITTED, HE WAS
INVOLVED.
CHECK I WAS INVOLVED, WITH THE
PROCESS BY WHICH MONEY WAS HELD
UP, TEMPORARILY. SECOND PUBLIC
REPORTS CONFIRM MR. MULVANEY'S
OWN ACCOUNTS,  THAT HE HAS
INFORMATION ON THE GOES TO THE
HEART OF THIS INQUIRY.
WHILE THE PRESIDENT OR TO THE
HALL AND KEPT IT IN PLACE,
DESPITE DEEP-SEATED CONCERNS
AMONG TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIALS. THE NEW YORK TIMES
ARTICLE ON THE SCREEN,
SUMMARIZES AN EMAIL CONVERSATION
BETWEEN ROBERT BLAIR AND MICK
MULVANEY.  ON JUNE 27th, WHEN
MICK MULVANEY  ASKED HIM DID WE
EVER FIND OUT, ABOUT THE MONEY
FOR UKRAINE, AND WHETHER WE CAN
HOLD IT BACK? WHAT PROMPTED THAT
EMAIL? ACCORDING TO PUBLIC
REPORTS, MR. MULVANEY  WAS ON
AIR FORCE ONE. AIR FORCE ONE.
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP WHEN HE
SENT IT. WHAT OTHER
CONVERSATIONS DID HE HAVE WITH
THE PRESIDENT AND WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS ABOUT THIS UNLAWFUL
FREEZE? THE AMERICAN PEOPLE,
DESERVE TO KNOW. THERE IS A
SIGNIFICANT EVIDENCE CONCERNING
MR. MULVANEY'S ROLE IN
IMPLEMENTING THIS  GAME.
ACCORDING TO MULTIPLE WITNESSES,
THE DIRECTIONS THE FREE SECURITY
ASSISTANT, TO UKRAINE, WAS
DELIVERED BY MR. MULVANEY
HIMSELF. MARK SANDY TESTIFIED
ABOUT JULY 12th EMAIL FROM BLAIR
STATING, PRESIDENT TRUMP IS
DIRECTING A HOLD ON MILITARY
SUPPORT FUNDING FOR UKRAINE. WAS
MR. BLAIR ACTING AT MR. MULVANEY
EXPRESSED DIRECTION?
THE MEMBERS OF THIS
DISTINGUISHED BODY, DESERVE TO
KNOW. ON THE LIGHT 18th THE HOLD
WAS ANNOUNCED TO THE AGENCIES IN
THE ADMINISTRATION OVERSEEN
UKRAINE POLICY MATTERS. THOSE
WERE BLINDSIDED BY THE
ANNOUNCEMENT. THAT IS VERY AID
APPROPRIATED BY THIS ON A
BIPARTISAN BASIS, TO UKRAINE,
WHICH IS STILL AT WAR WITH
RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS. THEY WERE
ALARMED. THE AIDE HAD
INEXPLICABLY, BEEN PUT ON HOLD.
MEANWHILE OFFICIALS AT THE
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT IN THE OFFICE
OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET BECAME
INCREASINGLY CONCERNED, THAT THE
HOLD ALSO VIOLATED THE LAW.
THEIR CONCERN TURNED OUT TO BE
ACCURATE.
PUBLIC REPORTS INDICATED THE
WHITE HOUSE, IS IN POSSESSION OF
EARLY AUGUST EMAILS EXCHANGES
BETWEEN ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF
MICK MULVANEY  AND
WHITE HOUSE BUDGET OFFICIALS
SEEKING TO PROVIDE AN
EXPLANATION FOR THE FUNDING. AN
EXPLANATION I SHOULD NOTE, THEY
WERE TRYING TO PROVIDE AFTER THE
PRESIDENT HAD ALREADY ORDERED
THE HOLD. MR. MULVANEY ,
PRESUMABLY HAD ANSWERED TWO OF
THE QUESTIONS. WE DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE ANSWERS ARE. BUT, HE
SHOULD PROVIDE THEM TO THE
SENATE AND TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE. FINALLY, ON OCTOBER
17th, 2019
AT A PRESS BRIEFING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE, MR. MULVANEY LEFT NO
DOUBT , THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WITHHELD THE ESSENTIAL MILITARY
AID AS LEVERAGE, TO TRY TO
EXTRACT PHONY POLITICAL
INVESTIGATION AS PART OF THIS
EFFORT TO SOLICIT FOREIGN
INTERFERENCE IN THE 2020
ELECTION. THIS WAS AN
EXTRAORDINARY PRESS CONFERENCE.
MR. MULVANEY MADE CLEAR,  THE
PRESIDENT WAS IN FACT PRESSURE
UKRAINE TO INVESTIGATE THE
CONSPIRACY THEORY THAT UKRAINE
RATHER THAN RUSSIA, I GET
INTERFERED IN THE 2016 ELECTION.
A CONSPIRACY THEORY, PROMOTED BY
NONE OTHER THAN THE GREAT
PURVEYOR OF DEMOCRACY VLADIMIR
PUTIN, HIMSELF. WHEN WHITE HOUSE
REPORTERS ATTEMPTED TO CLARIFY,
THIS ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF A QUID
PRO QUO WERE RELATED TO SECURITY
ASSISTANCE, MR. MULVANEY
REPLIED,  WE DO THAT ALL THE
TIME WITH FOREIGN POLICY. I AM
NEWS FOR YOU GET OVER IT.
LET'S LISTEN TO A PORTION OF
THAT STUNNING EXCHANGE.
>> HE MENTIONED TO ME THAT THE
CORRUPTION RELATED TO THE DNC
SERVER, ABSOLUTELY. NO QUESTION
THAT'S IT. THAT'S WHY WE HAVE
MONEY. THE DEMAND FOR AN
INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEMOCRATS
WAS PART OF THE REASON HE WANTED
TO WITHHOLD MONEY TO THE
UKRAINE.
>> WHEN HE LOOKED BACK TO WHAT
HAPPENED IN  2016 AND CERTAINLY
HE WAS WORRIED ABOUT THAT.
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY APPROPRIATE.
YOU DESCRIBED THAT AS A QUID PRO
QUO.
WE DO THAT ALL THE TIME WITH
FOREIGN POLICY. WE WERE LOOKING
FOR MONEY THE SAME TIME. THAT
THEY
WOULD CHANGE THEIR POLICY, ON
IMMIGRATION. BY THE WAY AND THIS
SPEAKS TO
GET I'M SORRY. I CAN NEVER
REMEMBER THE GENTLEMAN. IF THAT
HIS NAME? I DON'T KNOW. IF YOU
GO, AND IF YOU BELIEVE THIS
REPORTS, WE HAVE NOT SEEN ANY
TRANSCRIPT OF THIS.
THE ONLY TRANSCRIPT I'VE SEEN
WAS THIS MORNING. IF YOU READ
THE NEWS REPORT AND BELIEVE
THEM, WHAT DID HE SAY YESTERDAY?
McKINNEY SAID YESTERDAY HE WAS
REALLY UPSET WITH THE POLITICAL
INFLUENCE AND FOREIGN POLICY.
>> THAT WAS ONE OF THE REASONS
WAS SO UPSET ABOUT THIS. I AM
NEWS, GET OVER IT. THERE'S GOING
TO BE POLITICAL INFLUENCE IN
FOREIGN POLICY.
>> IN THIS EXTRAORDINARY PRESS
CONFERENCE,
MR. MULVANEY SPOKE WITH
AUTHORITY AND CONVICTION ABOUT
WHY PRESIDENT  TRUMP FOUND THE
AIDE. HE DIDN'T MINCE HIS WORDS.
FOLLOWING THE PRESS CONFERENCE,
TRYING TO WALK BACK HIS
STATEMENT. AS IF HE HADN'T SAID
THEM. AS IF HE HAD NOT MEANT
THEM. WE NEED TO HEAR FROM MAKE
DIRECTLY SO HE CAN CLARIFY HIS
INTENTIONS. I HAVE NOT GONE TO
THE NEED FOR EVIDENCE LET'S
BRIEFLY ADDRESS THE ARGUMENT,
THAT HE CAN BLOCK THIS
TESTIMONY. THAT IS NOT ONLY
WRONG, IT IS FUNDAMENTALLY
UNDERMINED BY SYSTEM OF CHECKS
AND BALANCES. STEP BACK FOR
MOMENT AND
CONSIDER THE EXTRAORDINARY
POSITION THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP IS
TRYING TO MANUFACTURE FOR
HIMSELF. THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE HAS ALREADY SAID THE
PRESIDENT CAN'T BE PROSECUTED OR
INDICTED OFFICE. AS WE SIT HERE
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT HAS FILED A
BRIEF IN THE SUPREME COURT
SAYING HE CANNOT BE CRIMINALLY
INVESTIGATED AS WELL. NOT WHILE
HE'S IN THE WHITE HOUSE. SO, THE
SENATE AND HOUSE ARE THE ONLY
CHECKS LEFT WHEN THE PRESIDENT
USES HIS POWER. HE TRIES TO
CHEAT IN THE NEXT ELECTION AND
UNDERMINE NATIONAL SECURITY. HE
BREAKS THE LAW IN DOING SO AND
THEN TRIED TO COVER IT UP. THIS
IS AMERICA. NOBODY IS ABOVE THE
LAW. BUT, IF THE PRESIDENT IS
ALLOWED TO DETERMINE WHETHER IF
HE'S ALLOWED TO BE INVESTIGATED
OR IF HE SHOULD COMPLY WITH
IMPEACHMENT HE IS THE ULTIMATE
ARBITER OF IF HE DID ANYTHING
WRONG. THAT CAN'T STAND. IF YOU
CANNOT BE INDICTED, AND IT
CANNOT BE IMPEACHED, AND IT
CANNOT BE REMOVED AND HE CANNOT
BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE, THAT IS
INCONSISTENT WITH
THE UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION.
YOU WILL KNOW THAT HERE, THAT
THE REASON HE BLOCKED ALL THESE
WITNESSES INCLUDING MR. MULVANEY
FROM TESTIFYING  BECAUSE OF A
LOFTY CONCERN, BY THE OFFICE OF
THE PRESIDENCY AND THE
PRESERVATION OF EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE, LET'S GET REAL. HOW
BLOCKING WITNESSES FROM TELLING
THE TRUTH, ABOUT THE PRESIDENTS
MISCONDUCT HELP PRESERVE THE
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENCY? THIS
TYPE OF BLANKET OBSTRUCTION
UNDERMINES THE CREDIBILITY OF
THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENCY,
AND DEALS THE CONSTITUTION HIM
MORTALLY DEATHBLOW. TO BE CLEAR
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE DOESN'T
PROVIDE LEGALLY JUSTIFIABLE
BASIS FOR HIS COMPLETE AND TOTAL
BLOCKAGE OF EVIDENCE.
IN FACT, AS YOU HEARD EARLIER
TODAY, PRESIDENT TRUMP NEVER
EVEN INVOKED EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE, NOT ONCE. AND WITHOUT
EVER ASSERTING THIS PRIVILEGE
HOW CAN YOU CONSIDER HIS
ARGUMENT IN A SERIOUS FASHION?
INSTEAD SPEAKING THROUGH
MR. SIMPLE ON THE WHITE HOUSE
COUNSEL IN A LETTER DATED
OCTOBER EIGHTH 2019, PRESIDENT
TRUMP DECIDED HE DIDN'T WANT TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE INVESTIGATION
INTO HIS OWN WRONGDOING IT WAS A
CATEGORICAL DECISION NOT TO
COOPERATE WITHOUT CONSIDERATION
OF SPECIFIC FACTS OR LEGAL
ARGUMENTS. IN FACT, EVEN THE
WORD THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP USED
THIS WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL WERE
MADE UP. IN THE LETTER HE
REFERRED TO SO-CALLED EXECUTIVE
BRANCH CONFIDENTIALITY INTEREST.
THAT IS NOT A RECOGNIZED
JURISPRUDENTIAL FIELD. THAT'S
NOT A PROPER ASSERTION OF
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE. TO THE
EXTENT THERE ARE PRIVILEGED
ISSUES TO CONSIDER, THOSE CAN BE
RESOLVED DURING TESTIMONY AS
THEY HAVE BEEN FOR DECADES.
FINALLY, THE PRESIDENT CLAIMED
MR. MULVANEY COULDN'T BE
COMPELLED TO TESTIFY BECAUSE OF
CIRCLE  ABSOLUTE IMMUNITY. EVERY
COURT TO ADDRESS THIS FICTION
HAS REJECTED IT. AS THE SUPREME
COURT EMPHATICALLY STATED IN THE
DECISION ON THE NIXON CASE,
EVENTUALITY INTEREST OF THE
PRESIDENT MUST YIELD TO AN
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY WHEN THERE
IS A NEED FOR INFORMATION AS
THERE IS HERE TODAY. THE COPY NO
DOUBT, MR. MULVANEY AS THE
PRESIDENT'S CHIEF OF STAFF AND
HEAD OF THE OFFICE MANAGEMENT
AND BUDGET, IS UNIQUELY
SITUATED, TO PROVIDE THIS
DISTINGUISHED BODY, WITH
RELEVANT AND IMPORTANT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE CHARGES IN
THE PEACH CO. THE PRESIDENT
OBSTRUCTION, HAS NO BASIS IN
LAW, AND IT SHOULD YIELD THE
BEST BODY, COEQUAL AUTHORITY TO
INVESTIGATE IMPEACHABLE AND
CORRUPT CONDUCT. ONE FINAL
POINT, BEARS MENTIONING. IF THE
PRESIDENT WANTED TO MAKE
WITNESSES AVAILABLE, EVEN WELL
PRESERVING THE EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE, HE CAN DO SO. IN
FACT, TRUMP EXPRESSED HIS DESIRE
FOR WITNESSES TO TESTIFY IN THE
SENATE, JUST LAST MONTH. LET'S
GO TO THE VIDEOTAPE. SO, WHEN IT
IS FAIR,
IT WILL BE FAIR IN THE SENATE, I
WOULD LOVE TO HAVE POMPEO, LOVE
TO HAVE MITCH, I WOULD LOVE
EVERETT TERRY, MANY OTHER
PEOPLE, TESTIFY,
TO PRESIDENT TRUMP HE HAS
NOTHING TO HIDE, HIS ADVISORS,
REPEATEDLY CLAIM, THEY SHOULD
ALL SIMPLY TESTIFY IN THE SENATE
TRIAL. WHAT IS DONALD JOHN TRUMP
HIDING FROM THE AMERICAN PEOPLE?
THE CONSTITUTION REQUIRES, A
FAIR TRIAL DEMOCRACY NEEDS A
FAIR TRIAL. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE,
DESERVE A FAIR TRIAL. A FAIR
TRIAL, NEEDS WITNESSES. A FAIR
TRIAL NEEDS DOCUMENTS. A FAIR
TRIAL MEANS CONSIDERATION OF ALL
THE AVAILABLE EVIDENCE. A FAIR
TRIAL, NEEDS TESTIMONY FROM MICK
MULVANEY . MR. CHIEF JUSTICE,
HOUSE MANAGERS RESERVE, THE
BALANCE OF OUR TIME.
>>
MR. PAT CIPOLLONE ?
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE. MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE. GOOD EVENING. MY
NAME IS MICHAEL PUGH PURE. I
SERVE AS DEPUTY COUNSEL TO THE
PRESIDENT. WE STRONGLY OPPOSE,
THE AMENDMENT, AND SUPPORTED THE
RESOLUTION. THERE IS SIMPLY, NO
NEED,
TO ALTER THE PROCESS ON WITNESS,
WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS, FROM
THAT OF THE CLINTON TRIAL. IT
WAS SUPPORTED BY THE BODY 100
TALK TO ZERO. THAT IS CORE AND
THIS CASE IS VERY SIMPLE. THE
KEY FACTS, ARE UNDISPUTED.
FIRST, YOU HAVE SEEN THE
TRANSCRIPTS. THE PRESIDENT
RELEASED THEM, UNPRECEDENTEDLY
AND TRANSPARENTLY. THERE WAS NO
SQUID, FOR ANYTHING. SECURITY
ASSISTANCE FUNDS, AREN'T EVEN
MENTIONED ON THE CALL. SECOND,
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY, AND THE
HIGHEST RANKING OFFICIALS IN THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT, REPEATEDLY
HAVE SAID THERE WAS NO SQUID AND
THERE WAS NO PRESSURE. FERN
THIRD, THE UKRAINIANS WERE NOT
EVEN AWARE, OF THE POND CAN THE
AID AT THE TIME OF THE CALL AND
WORK WHERE IT, DO NOT BECOME
AWARE OF IT, AND SOME MORE THAN
ONE MONTH LATER. FOUR, THE ONLY
WITNESSES, IN THE HOUSE RECORD
WHO ACTUALLY SPOKE TO THE
PRESIDENT ABOUT THE AID,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND AND SENATOR
RON JOHNSON,
SAY THE PRESIDENT WAS
UNEQUIVOCAL IN SAYING, THERE WAS
NO SQUID. FIFTH, AND THIS ONE IS
PRETTY OBVIOUS, THE AID
FLOWED, AND PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY MET, WITHOUT
ANY INVESTIGATION, STARTED OR
ANNOUNCED. FINALLY, AND I ASK
YOU NOT LOSE SIGHT OF THE BIG
PICTURE HERE. BY PROVIDING LEGAL
AID TO THE UKRAINE, PRESIDENT
TRUMP PROVEN HIMSELF TO BE, A
BETTER FRIEND AND ALLY TO
UKRAINE THAN HIS PREDECESSOR.
THE TIME
FOR THE HOUSE MANAGERS TO BRING
THEIR CASE IS NOW. THEY HAD
THEIR CHANCE. TO DEVELOP THEIR
EVIDENCE BEFORE THEY SENT THE
PEACH, TO THIS CHAMBER. THIS
CHAMBER'S ROLE,
TO THE HOUSE IS UP FOR IT. WITH
THAT YIELD THE BALANCE OF MY
TIME TO PAT CIPOLLONE . THANK
YOU MR. CHIEF JUSTICE. JUST A
COUPLE OBSERVATIONS. FIRST OF
ALL, AS MR. PUGH PURE SAID
ALL WE ARE TALKING ABOUT IS WHEN
THIS QUESTION IS ADDRESSED.
UNDER THE RESOLUTION, THAT WILL
BE NEXT WEEK. THIS RESOLUTION
WAS ACCEPTED
100 TO NOTHING. SOME OF YOU WERE
HERE THEN AND THOUGHT IT WAS
GREAT. IF WE KEEP GOING LIKE
THIS, IT WILL BE NEXT WEEK.
FOR THOSE OF YOU KEEPING SCORE
AT HOME, THEY HAVE NOT EVEN
STARTED YET. WERE HERE TODAY, WE
CAME, HOPING TO HAVE A TRIAL.
DAYS SPENT THE ENTIRE DAY,
TELLING YOU, AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE, THEY CAN'T PROVE THEIR
CASE. I COULD'VE TOLD YOU THAT
IN FIVE MINUTES AND SEND US ALL
A LOT OF TIME. THEY CAME HERE,
TALKING ABOUT THE GAO. IT'S AN
ORGANIZATION THAT WORKS FOR
CONGRESS. YOU KNOW WHO DISAGREES
WITH THE GAO? DON'T TAKE IT FROM
ME. THEY DO. THEY SENT YOU
PLEASE CALL, THAT MAKES NO CLAIM
OF ANY VIOLATION OF ANY LAW. BY
THE WAY, YOU KNOW WHO ALSO
DOESN'T? YOU CAN SEARCH HIGH AND
LOW AND YOU KNOW WHAT IT DOESN'T
SAY? SQUID, BECAUSE THERE WASN'T
ANY. ONLY IN WASHINGTON, WOULD
SOMEONE SAY THAT IT IS WRONG
WHEN YOU DO NOT SPEND 10 FAIR
DOLLARS PATINA, EVEN IF YOU
SPEND THEM ON TIME. LET'S TALK
ABOUT THE HOUSE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE FOR A SECOND. TWO DAYS
IN THE HOUSE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE, TWO DAYS THE HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE IS SUPPOSED
TO BE IN CHARGE OF IMPEACHMENT.
THE DELIVERY TIME FOR THE
ARTICLES THEY PRODUCE WAS 33
DAYS.
I THINK THIS MIGHT BE THE FIRST
IMPEACHMENT IN HISTORY FOR THE
DELIVERY TIME WAS LONGER, THEN
THE INVESTIGATION IN THE HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE. THEY COME
HERE, AND FALSELY ACCUSE PEOPLE
BY THE WAY, THEY FALSELY ACCUSED
YOU YOU WERE ON TRIAL NOW. THEY
FALSELY ACCUSED PEOPLE OF TONY
POLITICAL INVESTIGATION. REALLY.
SINCE THE HOUSE DEMOCRATS TOOK
OVER, THAT IS ALL WE HAVE HAD
FROM THEM. THEY USED THE OFFICE,
ALL THE MONEY THAT THE TAXPAYERS
SEND TO WASHINGTON TO PAY THEM
AND CONDUCT BONY POLITICAL
INVESTIGATIONS AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT AND AGAINST HIS FAMILY
AND ANYONE WHO KNEW HIM, THEY
STARTED IMPEACHING HIM, THE
MINUTE HE WAS ELECTED.
THEY HAVE WHIP AND ICED THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, TO
INVESTIGATE INCESSANTLY THEIR
POLITICAL OPPONENT. AND, THEY
COME HERE AND MAKE FALSE
ALLEGATIONS OF PHONY
POLITICAL INVESTIGATIONS. I
THINK THE DOCTORS CALL THAT
PROJECTION. IT IS TIME FOR IT TO
END. IT IS TIME FOR SOMEBODY,
FOR THE SENATE TO HOLD THEM
ACCOUNTABLE. THINK ABOUT WHAT
THEY ARE ASKING. I SAID IT. THEY
DIDN'T DENY IT AND THEY ARE
TRYING TO REMOVE PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S NAME FROM THE BALLOT.
THEY CANNOT PROVE THEIR CASE.
THEY TOLD YOU THAT ALL DAY LONG.
THINK ABOUT WHAT
THEY ARE ASKING SOME OF YOU
SENATORS TODAY. SOME OF YOU ARE
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT. THEY ARE
ASKING YOU TO USE YOUR OFFICE TO
REMOVE YOUR POLITICAL OPPONENT
FROM THE BALLOT. THAT IS WRONG.
THAT IS NOT IN THE INTEREST OF
OUR COUNTRY AND TO BE HONEST
WITH YOU, IT'S NOT REALLY A SHOW
CONFIDENCE. SO, WE WILL I
SUPPOSE HAVE THIS DEBATE AGAIN
NEXT WEEK, IF WE EVER GET THERE.
IT IS GETTING LATE. I WOULD ASK
YOU RESPECTFULLY, IF WE COULD
SIMPLY START, MAYBE TOMORROW WE
CAN START. THEY CAN MAKE THEIR
ARGUMENT AND THEY COULD I GUESS
MAKE A CASE THAT THEY ONCE
CALLED OVERWHELMING. WE WILL
SEE.
BUT THIS RESOLUTION IS RIGHT,
AND IT IS FAIR, AND IT MAKES
SENSE
. YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO HEAR WHAT
THEY HAVE TO SAY, BEFORE YOU
HAVE TO DECIDE THESE CRITICAL
ISSUES. THAT IS ALL THIS IS
ABOUT. IS IT NOW, OR IS IT ONE
WEEK FROM NOW? SERIOUSLY. CAN WE
PLEASE START? THANK YOU.
>> MR.
PAC IS YOUR SIDE COMPLETE? THANK
YOU. THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE 14
MINUTES REMAINING.
WHAT THE FRAMERS OF THE
CONSTITUTION WERE. A TRAIL OF
ONE OATH OF OFFICE FOR PERSONAL
GAIN. THE CORRUPTION OF OUR
MONTHLY HIGH CRIMES, AND
MISDEMEANORS, THAT IS WHAT THIS
TRIAL IS ALL ABOUT. COUNSEL FOR
THE PRESIDENT HAS DECLINED TO
ADDRESS THE SUBJECT OF MERIT, OF
THE AMENDMENT THAT HAVE BEEN
OFFERED. I TRIED TO SUGGEST THAT
HOUSE DEMOCRATS REALLY BEEN
FOCUSED ON TRYING TO OUST
PRESIDENT TRUMP. NOTHING CAN BE
FURTHER FROM THE TRUTH. IN THE
LAST YEAR WE PASSED 400 BILLS,
275 OF THOSE BILLS, ARE
BIPARTISAN IN NATURE. ADDRESSING
ISSUES LIKE LOWERING HEALTHCARE
COST AND PRESCRIPTION DRUG
PRICES. TRYING TO DEAL WITH THAN
VIOLENCE EPIDEMIC. WE HAVE
WORKED WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP ON
CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM. I
PERSONALLY WORKED WITH HIM ALONG
WITH ALL OF YOU ON THE FIRST. WE
WORKED WITH HIM ON THE U.S.
MEXICO CANADA TRADE AGREEMENT.
WE WORKED WITH HIM TO FUND THE
GOVERNMENT. WE DO NOT HATE
THIS PRESIDENT, BUT WE LOVE THE
CONSTITUTION. WE LOVE AMERICA.
WE LOVE OUR DEMOCRACY. THAT'S
WHY WE ARE HERE TODAY. THE
QUESTION WAS ASKED,
WHY, WHY WHY ARE WE HERE? LET ME
SEE IF I COULD POSIT AN ANSWER
TO THAT QUESTION. WE ARE HERE,
SIR, BECAUSE PRESIDENT TRUMP
PRESSURED FOREIGN GOVERNMENT TO
TARGET AN AMERICAN CITIZEN FOR
POLITICAL AND PERSONAL GAIN. WE
ARE HERE BECAUSE PRESIDENT TRUMP
SOLICITED FOREIGN INTERFERENCE
IN THE 2020 ELECTION, AND
CORRUPTED OUR DEMOCRACY. WE ARE
HERE, SIR BECAUSE PRESIDENT
TRUMP WITH CHILD $391 MILLION IN
MILITARY AID FROM A VULNERABLE
UKRAINE WITHOUT JUSTIFICATION IN
A MANNER THAT HAS BEEN DEEMED
UNLAWFUL. WE ARE HERE, BECAUSE
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP, ELEVATED
HIS
PERSONAL, POLITICAL INTEREST AND
SUBORDINATED THE NATIONAL
SECURITY INTEREST OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA. WE ARE HERE,
SIR, BECAUSE PRESIDENT TRUMP
ABUSED HIS POWER AND THEN, HE
TRIED TO COVER IT UP. WE ARE
HERE, SIR, TO FOLLOW THE FACTS,
APPLIED TO LAW, TO BE GUIDED BY
THE CONSTITUTION, AND PRESENT
THE TRUTH TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE. THAT IS WHY WE ARE HERE,
MR. SECULAR IS YOU DON'T KNOW,
NOW YOU KNOW. I YIELD TO MY
DISTINGUISHED COLLEAGUE,
CHAIRMAN SHIFT. TRACKMAN
>> I THANK YOU FOR YIELDING. I
WANT TO PROVIDE A COUPLE QUICK
BACK SIX; AT THE OTHER TABLE.
FIRST, SECURITY ASSISTANCE FUNDS
WEREN'T MENTIONED AT ALL, IN THE
JULY 25th CALL BETWEEN TRUMP AND
THE ZELENSKY. LET'S THINK
BACK TO WHAT WAS DISCUSSED IN
THE CALL. YOU MIGHT REMEMBER
FROM THAT CALL THAT ZELENSKY,
THANKS PRESIDENT TRUMP FOR THE
JAVELIN ANTI-TANK WEAPONS AND
SAYS, THEY'RE READY TO ORDER
MORE. AND WHAT IS TRUMP'S
IMMEDIATE RESPONSE? I HAVE A
FAVOR TO ASK. WHAT WAS IT ABOUT
THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE
BRINGING UP MILITARY ASSISTANCE
THAT TRIGGERED HIM TO GO
IMMEDIATELY TO THE FAVOR, THAT
HE WANTED? I THINK THAT'S
TELLING. IT TAKES PLACE IN THAT
PART OF THE CONVERSATION. YES,
MILITARY ASSISTANCE DID COME UP
IT CAME UP IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING
THE ASK. WHAT KIND OF MESSAGE DO
YOU THINK THAT SENSE? THEY ARE
NOT STUPID. THE PEOPLE WATCHING
THIS ARE NOT STUPID. HE SAYS,
WELL THEY NEVER FOUND OUT ABOUT
IT. BUT IN MY FIND OUT ABOUT IT
UNTIL ONE MONTH LATER HE NEEDS
TO BE MORE CAREFUL WITH HIS
EXPRESS LET ME TELL YOU ABOUT
SOME OF THE TESTIMONY YOU'RE
GOING TO HEAR AND YOU WILL HEAR
BECAUSE, IT TOOK PLACE IN THE
HOUSE. THEY ARE WITNESSES IF
THERE WERE OTHER WITNESSES YOU
WOULD HEAR IT. YOU HAD CATHERINE
CROFT. SHE'S A CAREER OFFICIAL
FROM THE STATE DEPARTMENT. SHE
TALKED ABOUT, HOW QUICKLY AFTER
THE FREEZE WENT INTO PLACE,
UKRAINIANS FOUND OUT ABOUT IT.
SHE STARTED TO GET CONTACT. SHE
SAID SHE WAS REALLY IMPRESSED
WITH THE DIPLOMATIC CRANE CRAFT.
SHE WAS IMPRESSED WITH HOW
QUICKLY THE CRANE FOUND OUT
ABOUT IT. UKRAINE FOUND OUT
ABOUT IT IN FACT, LAURA COOPER,
A CAREER OFFICIAL AT THE DEFENSE
DEPARTMENT,
SAID HER OFFICE STARTED GETTING
INQUIRIES FROM UKRAINE ABOUT THE
ISSUES WITH THE AID, ON JULY
25th, THE VERY DAY OF CALL. SO
MUCH FOR UKRAINE NOT FINDING OUT
ABOUT THIS FOR ONE MONTH LATER.
I THOUGHT THIS WAS VERY TELLING
TOO. THE NEW YORK TIMES
DISCLOSED, THAT JULY 30th,
WITHIN ONE WEEK OF THE CALL
BETWEEN TRUMP AND ZELENSKY,
UKRAINE'S FOREIGN MINISTRY
RECEIVED A
TABLE INDICATING, TRUMP HAD
FROZEN MILITARY AID WITHIN ONE
WEEK. THAT CABLE WENT FROM
UKRAINIAN AND PROCEED TO THE
FOREIGN MINISTRY. THE FORMER
UKRAINIAN DEPUTY
FOREIGN MINISTER SAID," WE HAVE
THIS INFORMATION. IT WAS
DEFINITELY MENTIONED THERE WERE
SOME ISSUES. SHE WENT ON TO SAY
THE CABLE, WAS SIMULTANEOUSLY
PROVIDED TO PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S
OFFICE. YOU WILL LEARN MORE
ABOUT LATER A TOP AIDE TO
ZELENSKY, REPORTEDLY DIRECTED
HER TO KEEP SILENT, NOT DISCUSS
THE WHOLE WITH REPORTERS OR
CONGRESS. WE HAVE TESTIMONY,
THEY KNEW. YOU CAN IMAGINE WHY.
ZELENSKY DIDN'T WANT HIS
PEOPLE TO KNOW THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES WAS ON BACK
AID FROM HIM. WHAT DOES THAT
LOOK LIKE FOR THE NEW PRESIDENT?
HE WAS TRYING TO MAKE THE CASE
HE WAS GOING TO BE ABLE TO
DEFEND HIS OWN COUNTRY AND HE
DIDN'T WANT THEM TO KNOW ABOUT
IT? MORE THAN THAT, HE DIDN'T
WANT RUSSIANS TO KNOW ABOUT IT.
SO, YES, THE UKRAINIANS KEPT IT
CLOSE TO THE VEST.
NOW, HE WENT ON TO SAY, THE
UKRAINIANS SAY, THEY DON'T FEEL
ANY PRESSURE. THAT'S WHAT THEY
SAY NOW. WE KNOW THAT'S NOT
TRUE.
WE HAVE TESTIMONY DAY DID NOT
WANT TO BE USED AS A POLITICAL
PAWN IN U.S. DOMESTIC POLITICS.
THERE IS IT THAT IT YOU'LL HEAR
MORE TESTIMONY ABOUT THAT. THEY
TRIED TO WATER DOWN. THEY TRIED
TO LEAVE OUT SPECIFICS. THIS IS
NOT GOING TO BE CREDIBLE. ADD
2016. YOU WILL HEAR ABOUT THE
PRESSURE. THEY FELT IT. SO, WHY
ISN'T ZELENSKY SAYING NOW, HE'S
PRESSURED. CAN YOU IMAGINE THE
IMPACT OF THAT? CAN YOU IMAGINE
THE IMPACT IF HE HAD TO
ACKNOWLEDGE TODAY,
WE FELT PRESSURED. YOU WOULD
TOO. WE ARE AT WAR WITH RUSSIA.
FOR CRYING OUT LOUD. YEAH, WE
FELT PRESSURE WE NEEDED THAT
MILITARY AID. I CANNOT GET IN
THE WAY. I CANNOT EVEN GET IN
THE WHITE-HOT DOOR. DO YOU THINK
I WILL GO OUT NOW, AND ADMIT TO
THIS SCHEME? ANYBODY WHO HAS
WATCHED THIS PRESIDENT FOR THE
LAST THREE YOU KNOW HOW
VINDICTIVE HE CAN BE. DO YOU
THINK IT WOULD BE SMART FOR
ZELENSKY TO CONTRADICT THE
PRESIDENT ON THIS ISSUE SO
DIRECTLY HE'S PLAYING AND
PREACHED FOR?
WE SHOULD NOT BE SURPRISED HE
WOULD DENY IT. WE SHOULD NOT BE
SURPRISED IF HE ADMITTED IT.
NOW, LET ME END WITH A COUPLE
OBSERVATIONS ABOUT PAT
CIPOLLONE'S COMMENTS. HE SAYS,
THIS IS NO BIG DEAL. WE ARE NOT
TALKING ABOUT ONE WE WILL HAVE
WITNESSES.
WE TALKED ABOUT WHEN. WE ARE
JUST TIME I WENT, AS IF, WELL
LATER THEY ARE GOING TO SAY YES
WE ARE HAPPY TO HAVE WITNESSES
NOW. IT'S JUST A QUESTION OF
WHEN. OKAY.
AS MY COLLEAGUE SAID, LET'S BE
REAL. THERE WILL BE NO WHEN.
THERE WILL BE NO WHEN. DO YOU
THINK THEY WILL HAVE AN EPIPHANY
FEW DAYS FROM NOW. THEIR GOAL
IS, GET YOU TO SAY NO NOW. GET
YOU HAVE THE TRIAL. THEN ARGUE,
MAKE IT GO AWAY. LET'S DISMISSED
THE WHOLE THING. THAT'S THE
PLAN. A VOTE TO DELAY IT'S A
VOTE TO DENY LET'S MAKE NO
MISTAKE ABOUT THAT. THEY WILL
NOT HAVE A EPIPHANY FEW DAYS
FROM NOW. THEY WILL NOT SAY
AMERICANS JUST THE ANSWERS. THE
WHOLE GOAL IS THAT YOU WILL
NEVER GET TO THAT POINT. THEY
WILL NEVER GET TO THAT POINT.
WHEN THEY SAY WHEN, THEY MAY
NEVER.
>>
MAJORITY LEADER IS RECOGNIZED. I
MAKE A MOTION TO TABLE, THE
AMENDMENT.
>> IS THERE SUFFICIENT SECOND?
THE CLERK WILL CALL THE ROLE.
MR. ALEXANDER. MS. BALDWIN.
MR. BARRASSO. MR. BENNETT. MRS.
BLACKBURN. MR. BLUMENTHAL.
MR. BLUNT. MR. BOOKER. MR.
BOSEMAN. MR.
BRAUN. MR. BROWN. MR. BURR MS.
CANTWELL.
MRS. O. MR. CARDIN. MR. CARPER.
MR. CASEY. MR.
CASSIDY. MS. COLLINS. MR. KUNZ.
MR. CORNYN. MS. CORTEZ. MR.
COTTON. MR. KRAMER. MR. CRAPO.
MR. CRUZ. MR. DAINES. MS.
DUCKWORTH. MR. DURBIN.
MR. NG. MS. ERNST. MRS.
FEINSTEIN. MRS. FISHER.
MR. GARDNER. MRS. JILL A BRAND.
MR. BRAME. MR. GRASSLEY.
MS. HARRIS. MS. HASSAN. MR.
HOLLY MR. HEINRICH.
MR. HOVEN. MRS. HYDE SMITH. MR.
IMHOFF. MR. JOHNSON.
MR. JONES. MR. KANE. MR.
KENNEDY. MR. KING.
MS. CLOVER CHART. MR. LANGFORD.
MR. LEE HE. MR. LEE.
MRS. LEFFLER.
MR. MARKEY. MR. McCONNELL.
MS. McCALLEY. MR. MENENDEZ. MR.
MARKLEY. MR. MORAN.
MISS MARKOWSKI. MR. MURPHY. MRS.
MARE. MR. PAUL.
MR. PERDUE. MR. PETERS. MR.
PORTMAN.
MR. REED.
MR. RIDGE.
MR. ROBERTS. MR. ROMNEY. MS.
ROSEN. MR. ROUNDS. MR. RUBIO.
MR. SANDERS. MR. SASS. MR.
SHOTS. MR. SCHUMER.
MR. SCOTT OF FLORIDA. MR. SCOTT
OF SOUTH CAROLINA. MR. SHELBY.
MR. SHELBY. MR. CINEMA. MS.
SMITH. MR. SULLIVAN.
MR. TESTER. MR. TELLIS MR.
MR. UDALL. MR. TOOMEY. MR. VAN
HOLLEN. MR. WARNER. MR. LORRAIN.
MR. WHITEHOUSE. MR. WHITAKER.
MR. WYDEN. MR. YOUNG.
>>>
OTHER ANY SENATORS WISHING TO
CHANGE HIS OR HER VOTE?
THE AMENDMENT IS TABLED. MR.
MAJORITY LEADER IS RECOGNIZED.
OUR
ASKED DEMOCRATIC LEADER, ARE
CERTAIN SIMILARITIES TO THESE
AMENDMENTS WHETHER HE MIGHT BE
WILLING TO ENTER INTO A CONSENT
AGREEMENT TO STOCK THESE VOTES.
WITHOUT A OBJECTION IT IS
PERMITTED. THANK YOU MR. CHIEF
JUSTICE THE BOTTOM LINE IS
SIMPLE AND HAS BEEN CLEAR TO
EVERY SENATOR AND THE COUNTRY,
WE BELIEVE WITNESSES AND
DOCUMENTS ARE EXTREMELY
IMPORTANT AND A COMPELLING CASE
UP AND MADE FOR THEM. WE WILL
VOTE ON ALL OF THOSE. WE WILL
ALSO WITHOUT CONSULTING US MAKE
CHANGES A NUMBER OF SIGNIFICANT
CHANGES THAT DEVIATED FROM THE
1999 CLINT RESOLUTION. WE WANT
TO CHANGE THOSE WERE WILLING
TO DO SOME OF THOSE VOTES,
TOMORROW. THERE'S NO REASON WE
HAVE TO DO THEM ALL, TONIGHT AND
INCONVENIENCE THE SENATE AND THE
CHIEF JUSTICE. WE WILL NOT BACK
OFF GETTING VOTES ON ALL THESE
AMENDMENTS,
WHICH WE REGARD AS EXTREMELY
SIGNIFICANT AND IMPORTANT TO THE
COUNTRY.
>> AS I'VE SAID REPEATEDLY, ALL
THESE AMENDMENTS UNDER THE
RESOLUTION, COULD BE DEALT WITH
AT THE APPROPRIATE TIME.
THE CLERK WILL CALL THE ROLE.
MR. ALEXANDER.
WHAT'S HAPPENING
YOUR McCONNELL ASKING IF THEY
COULD LUMP THEM ALL TOGETHER AND
VOTE ON THEM AT ONCE.
THERE IS NO RUSH IN GETTING IT
ALL DONE, TONIGHT. HOWEVER RIGHT
NOW, 930 P.M. EASTERN, LEADER
McCONNELL WANTS TO WRAP THIS UP
AND MOVE FORWARD. SO, WE ARE
WAITING TO SEE WHICH WILL
PREVAIL. SO, STAY TUNED FOR THAT
. LET'S GET MY COLLEAGUE ON
CAPITOL HILL. RON SENATORS UNDER
LISTEN. IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
ANSWERING SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT
JUST HOW THIS WILL GO. WHAT HAS
BEEN THE WAY TODAY ON CAPITOL
HILL?
>> WELL THE MOOD
WE ARE WAITING TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT AND FROM THE
BEGINNING, TODAY'S SENATOR
SCHUMER SAID, HE WILL BRING A
SERIES, HE SAID SERIES OF
AMENDMENTS, TODAY. IN THE
MORNING HE WAS NOT VERY
FORTHCOMING ABOUT HOW MANY HE
HAD. WE ARE ENTERING NUMBER
FIVE, THIS HAS BEEN A PART OF
THE DEMOCRATS STRATEGIES TO
BRING UP THE EXTRA WITNESSES
THEY WANT TO HEAR FROM. THEY ARE
DISCUSSING RULES WE DON'T KNOW
WHAT WILL HAPPEN, NEXT. BUT,
THERE IS A SENSE OF FATIGUE. WE
ARE HEARING, SOME SENATORS ARE
NOT RETURNING TO THE CHAMBER WE
HAVE SEEN IMMEDIATE PACKING UP,
FOR THE DAY THERE'S A SENSE OF
FATIGUE. IT HAS GONE LONGER THEN
MAYBE SOME ANTICIPATED, THE DATE
TO CAPTURE THAT PETITE I WANT TO
PLAY, TAPE WHERE THE WHITE HOUSE
COUNSEL PAT CIPOLLONE  MENTIONED
WE NEED TO MOVE ON. LISTEN TO
THIS. JEFF, SO,
WE WILL, AS OPPOSED CAMPUS
DEBATE, AGAIN, NEXT WEEK, IF WE
EVER GET THERE. IT IS GETTING
LATE. I WOULD ASK YOU,
RESPECTFULLY, IF WE COULD SIMPLY
START. MAYBE TOMORROW, WE CAN
START. THEY CAN MAKE THEIR
ARGUMENT AND I GUESS, MAKE A
CASE THEY ONCE CALLED
OVERWHELMING. WE WILL SEE.
BUT, THIS RESOLUTION IS RIGHT,
AND IT IS FAIR, AND IT MAKES
SENSE.
YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO HEAR WHAT
THEY HAVE TO SAY, BEFORE YOU
DECIDE, THERE'S CRITICAL ISSUES.
THAT'S ALL THIS IS ABOUT, IS IT
NOW OR A WEEK FROM NOW?
SERIOUSLY. CAN WE PLEASE START?
>>
PAT CIPOLLONE,  THE LEAD COUNSEL
FOR THE WHITE HOUSE. WHAT HAS
BEEN THE STRATEGY FOR THE WHITE
HOUSE? THE REPUBLICANS SAY, THEY
JUST WANT TO MOVE ON. TOO MUCH
OF NORMALLY START OPENING
ARGUMENTS. THE HOUSE MANAGERS,
HAVE BEEN SPENDING MOST OF THE
DAY HAMMERING AWAY ON THE POINTS
OF THE MAIN ARGUMENTS. THEY HAVE
BEEN GOING THROUGH THE EVIDENCE
COMPILED BY THE HOUSE. THEY HAVE
VISUAL AIDS TO SELL DIFFERENT
TESTIMONY IN NEWS REPORTS AND
THEY CAME PREPARE FOR ALL THESE
AMENDMENTS. IT IS INTERESTING TO
SEE BOTH SIDES APPROACH TODAY
DIFFERENTLY.
>> AT THIS POINT WE HAVE SEEN
WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL AWAY FROM
THE TABLE. THE BOTTOM RIGHT
AREA, IS WHERE TRUMP'S LEGAL
TEAM SET AND THEY HAVE LEFT NOW.
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, THE
DEMOCRATS ON THE LEFT SIDE OF
THE SCREEN, THEY HAVE BEEN
MILLING AROUND A BIT WE DID HERE
WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL ASK, WHY ARE
WE HERE? IT REALLY GAVE
DEMOCRATS AND OPENING TO GIVE A
ROBUST ANSWER TO THAT QUESTION,
WHY ARE WE HERE? HE WENT BACK TO
THE CASE AND GIVE A STRONG
ORATORY FASHION, HE LAID OUT WHY
EXACTLY, THEY ARE HERE. IT MAY
HAVE BEEN RHETORICAL ON BEHALF
OF TRUMP'S TEAM BUT CONGRESSMAN
JEFFERS TOOK ADVANTAGE OF IT
MOMENT TO REMIND EVERYBODY,
WISHING INKS WE ARE HERE. AND
ALSO, HOW WE GOT HERE. LET'S GO
THROUGH HOW SCHUMER TRIED TO GET
SUPPORT FOR SO FAR.
HE WANTED TO SEE DOCUMENTS AND
INFO FROM THE WHITE HOUSE AND
FROM OMB AND ALSO, THIS DATE
DEPARTMENT WE ARE EXPECTING
QUESTIONS, TO COME UP ABOUT
WHETHER WE HAVE DEFENSE
DOCUMENTS TO COME FORWARD. THERE
WAS A QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER
MITT COULD BE SUBPOENAED WHAT
STANDS OUT TO YOU ON THAT LIST?
>>? WAS THE LAST TWO AMENDMENTS
THE SUB TINA AND ALSO SO TINA
FOR AMICK. THOSE THINGS ARE
CRITICAL TO THE QUESTION OF
WHETHER OR NOT TRUMP WITHHELD
AID. DID THAT HAPPEN? AND MAKE
IS THE KEY WITNESS THAT KNOWS A
LOT GOING ON BEHIND THE SCENES
AND LOWS ABOUT OLDER WITNESSES.
THOSE LAST TWO WERE VERY
IMPORTANT PARTS OF THE DEMOCRATS
CASE, TO BRING FORWARD EVIDENCE,
EXISTING EVIDENCE AND ALSO NEW
EVIDENCE AND MET. AYE, THE OTHER
THING LIKE  WHAT HOW SUBPOENAED
DOCUMENTS AND THOSE THINGS
COURSE WOULD SUPPORT EVIDENCE
AND I THINK THAT HE'S RIGHT
THERE, WOULD HAVE BEEN THE OMB
DOCUMENTS AND TESTIMONY OF MICK
MULVANEY MULVANEY.  WE ARE
WATCHING OUT TO SEE IF THERE'S
GOING TO BE
THINGS CONTINUING TONIGHT OR IF
THERE WILL BE A POSITIVE WE ARE
WATCHING TO SEE WHAT SENATORS
ARE GOING TO BE COMING OUT
TONIGHT TO DEMOCRATS COULD GET
THEIR WAY AND KEEP INTRODUCING
AMENDMENTS ONE AFTER THE OTHER
DRAGGING THIS OUT QUITE LATE
INTO THE NIGHT OR IF DEMOCRATS
GO TO ALL OF THEM ALL AT ONCE IN
ONE SWEEPING VOTE. THEY COULD
ALSO CONTINUE TO SLOPPIER RUN
WHY DO DEMOCRATS NOT WANT TO
BROTHER, WHY DO REPUBLICANS NOT
TO STOP HER NOW AND START FRESH
IN THE MORNING WITH DEMOCRATS
CONTINUING TO OFFER MEMBERS?
>> I THINK THIS STRATEGY IS TO
TRY TO GET THROUGH THIS AS
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE.
IT'S ONLY GOING TO DELAY OPENING
ARGUMENTS. BEFORE THE TRIAL
BEGAN, REPUBLICAN SAY, THEY WANT
TO GET THIS MOVING AND GET IT
STARTED. WE HEARD THOSE COMMENTS
FROM PAT CIPOLLONE THROUGHOUT
THE DAY. LET'S JUST GET STARTED.
THEY COULD WAIT UNTIL TOMORROW
TO CARRY THROUGH WITH THESE
OTHER SCHUMER AMENDMENTS. THAT
WILL ONLY PROLONG THIS WEEK. ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT HAPPENED
TODAY THAT FEELS LIKE IT COULD
HAVE AND FOREVER AGO BUT THE
11th HOUR DECISION BY HOUSE
MAJORITY LEADER MITCH McCONNELL
TO CHANGE A PART OF ORGANIZING
RESOLUTION, TO NOT CONDEMN THE
OPENING ARGUMENT. AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE DAY IT WAS A
FLUSH BETWEEN IMMIGRANTS AND
REPUBLICANS. DEMOCRAT SAID, IT'S
GOING BY WAY TOO FAST. SCHUMER
HELD A PRESS CONFERENCE AT 11
A.M. TODAY. IT WAS A DISGRACE
THAT HE WAS GOING TO HANDLE IT
BY THESE AMENDMENTS. THERE HAS
BEEN REPORTING IN THE LAST TWO
HOURS IT WAS THAT ONCE CAUCUS
MEETING THAT PUBLICANS HAD, WERE
THEY CAME FORWARD AND SAID, LOOK
WERE CONCERNED THIS IS GOING ON
LITTLE TOO FAST. WE ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THIS BEING
BROKEN UP IN TWO DAYS. SENATOR
COLLINS OF MAINE AND PORTMAN,
WERE THE TWO SENATORS THAT WERE
SAYING THAT, WE NEED TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THIS AND CHANGE
IT. THAT HAS BEEN ONE OF THE
VERY INTERESTING THINGS ABOUT
THE DAY, HE SAW THE LEADER IN
THE SENATE CHANGE SOMETHING HE
HAS SAID SINCE LAST NIGHT.
SOMETHING HE WILL BE
CONSIDERING. CHECK MY AMBER, WE
HAVE SEEN THAT TRUMP LEGAL TEAM
RETURNED TO THE SENATE WILL
THERE. WE WILL SEE IF WE GET A
BETTER SENSE OF WHAT IS GOING TO
BE HAPPENING NEXT.
McCONNELL HAS SAID WE CAN DEAL
WITH ALL OF THESE AMENDMENTS AT
THE POLICE TIME. WE ALREADY HAVE
OPENING ARGUMENTS TAKEN CARE OF.
WHAT IS YOUR READ ABOUT HOW
THINGS ARE GOING RIGHT NOW,
AMBER?
TUESDAY GOING SO LATE HAS CAUSED
EVERYBODY IN THE SENATE TO BE
SURPRISED.
THESE FOLKS HAVE TO HAVE
WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS AT THE
OUTSET. HE HAS KEPT IT CLOSE TO
TRUST. EACH REQUIRES IT TWO HOUR
DEBATE FROM BOTH SIDES.
THIS IS UP IN THE AIR, NOW.
HOUSE MAJORITY LEADER MITCH
McCONNELL DID NOT SEEM TO HAVE
PLANNED FOR THIS. IT'S A
STANDOFF BETWEEN THESE TWO
LEADERS. CONNELL IS A ROUGH
SCHEDULE. DUE DATE HAVE
EVERYBODY TAKE A BREAK AND TAKE
A BREATH AND PICK IT UP? YOU
KNOW, I WAS GOING THROUGH MY
HEAD, OF THE BENEFITS
POLITICALLY AND NEGATIVES FOR IT
GOES ON SALON. SO LONG.
>> SPOKE OF THE CLERK WILL
REPORT.
THE SENATOR FROM NEW YORK
SCHUMER PROPOSES AN AMENDMENT
1288 AT THE APPROPRIATE PLACE IN
CIRCA FOLLOWING SECTION
NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER
POSITION OF THE RESOLUTION AND
FIVE AND SIX OF THE WORLD
SUPPORT TEACHERS AND PRACTICE
WHEN SITTING ON IMPEACHMENT
TRIALS, ONE THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF
THE UNITED'S DATES AND SECRETARY
SHALL ISSUE A SUBPOENA TO THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE COMMANDING
HIM TO PRODUCE FOR THE TIME
PERIOD FROM JANUARY 1 2019 TO
THE PRESENCE ON DOCUMENTS
COMMUNICATIONS AND OTHER RECORDS
IN CUSTODY OR CONTROL OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RELATING
TO A THE ACTUAL OR POTENTIAL
SUSPENSION, WITHHOLDING DELAYING
FREEZING RELEASING OF THE COURT
SYSTEM,
MILITARY ASSISTANCE OR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE OF ANY KIND TO
UKRAINE,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
INITIATIVE USA I AND FOR
MILITARY FINANCING INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, ONE
COMMUNICATIONS AMONG OR BETWEEN
THE VISUALS AND DEPARTMENT OF
THE WHITE HOUSE, OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET DEPARTMENT
OF STATE OFFICE OF THE VICE
PRESIDENT, TOO, DOCUMENTS
COMMUNICATIONS NOTES OR OTHER
RECORDS CREATED SENT OR RECEIVED
BY THE SECRETARY MARK ASPIRIN
DEPUTY SECRETARY DAVID NORQUIST,
UNDERSECRETARY DEFENSE ELAINE
McCUSKER AND DEPUTY ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE LAURA
COOPER OR MR. ERIC TUNING,
THREE, DRAFT FINAL LETTERS FOR
DEPUTY SECRETARY DAVID NORCROSS
TO THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET AND FOUR, UNREDACTED
COPIES OF DOCUMENTS RELEASED IN
RESPONSE TO THE DECEMBER 25 2019
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
REQUEST BY THE CENTER FOR PUBLIC
INTEGRITY TRACKING NUMBER 19   F
1934. THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT'S KNOWLEDGE PRIOR TO
AUGUST 28 2019 OF ANY ACTUAL OR
POTENTIAL SUSPENSION
WITHHOLDING, DELAYING FREEZING
OR RELEASING OF THE UNITED'S
DATES WERE IN. MILITARY
ASSISTANCE OR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED 12 MEETINGS
CALLS, OR OTHER ENGAGEMENTS OF
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS, REGARDING
POTENTIAL OR ACTUAL THIS
TENSION HOLDS OR DELAYS IN THE
UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO
ONE, COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
OF STATE AND CONCERNING THE
UKRAINIAN EMBASSY'S INQUIRIES
ABOUT UNITED STATES FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE MILITARY ASSISTANCE,
AND SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE INTO,
COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED DIRECTLY
FROM THE UKRAINIAN EMBASSY ABOUT
UNITED STATES FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
, MILITARY ASSISTANCE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE. SEE,
COMMUNICATIONS OPINIONS DEVICE
COUNCIL APPROVAL OR CONFERENCES
PROVIDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET OR THE WHITE HOUSE FOR
THE LEGALITY OF SUSPENSION
WITHHOLDING, DELAYING, FREEZING
ORGANIZED SYSTEMS MILITARY
ASSISTANCE AND SECURITY
ASSISTANCE.
PLANNED ARE ACTUAL MEETINGS WITH
TRUMP RELATED TO THE UNITED
STATES FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
MILITARY ASSISTANCE OR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE, INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY NOTES FOR
SECRETARY MARK S ARE FOR
MEETINGS WITH TRUMP ON AUGUST
16, AUGUST 19 OR AUGUST 30 2019.
EITHER DECISION ANNOUNCED ON OR
ABOUT SEPTEMBER 11 2019 TO
RELEASE APPROPRIATED ASSISTANCE
MILITARY SYSTEMS, SECURITY
SYSTEM TO UKRAINE, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO NOTES RANDOM
DOCUMENTATION OR CORRESPONDENCE
RELATED TO THE DECISION AND
KEPT ON READINGS AND CALLED
BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
PRESIDENT UKRAINE INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO DOCUMENTS
MENTATION AND OTHER RECORDS THAT
KILLED IN FOLLOW-UP FROM APRIL
21, JULY 25 2019 PHONE CALLS US
WAS THE PRESIDENT SEPTEMBER 25,
2019 MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT
OF UKRAINIAN NEW YORK INTO
SERGEANT OF ARMS TO UTILIZE
SERVICES OR ANY OTHER EMPLOYEE
IN THE SENATE AND SERVING
THE AMENDMENT IS ARGUABLE FOR
TWO
HOURS EQUALLY DIVIDED, MR.
MANAGER SHIFT ARE YOU A
PROPONENT OR OPPONENT? MR.
>>REPORTER:? MR. SHIFT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS CAN PROCEED FIRST AND
RESERVE TIME FOR REBUTTAL.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE THE HOUSE
MANAGERS WILL BE RESERVING THE
BALANCE OF OUR TIME TO RESPOND
TO THE ARGUMENT.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, SENATORS,
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, WOULD LIKE
TO BEGIN BY GETTING SOMETHING
OFF MY CHEST. SOMETHING THAT HAS
BEEN BOTHERING ME.
COUNSEL FOR THE PRESIDENT AND
OTHER PEOPLE IN THIS ROOM HAVE
BEEN, TALKING A LOT ABOUT HOW
LATE IT IS GETTING. HOW LONG
THIS DEBATE IS TAKING. IT'S
ALMOST 10 P.M. HERE IN
WASHINGTON, D.C. THEY SAY, LET'S
GET THIS STARTED. LET'S GET
MOVING. THE WHOLE TIME, THE ONLY
THING I CAN THINK ABOUT, IS HOW
LATE IT IS IN OTHER PLACES.
BECAUSE, RIGHT NOW, IT'S THE
MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT IN EUROPE.
WE HAVE OVER 60,000 U.S. TROOPS,
AND THERE ARE HELICOPTER PILOTS
FLIGHT ON TRAINING MISSIONS.
TANKERS, MANEUVERING ACROSS
FIELDS AND INFANTRYMEN, WALKING
WITH 100 POUND BACKPACKS AND YET
UKRAINIAN SOLDIERS ARE GETTING
READY TO WAKE UP IN THE
TRENCHES, FIGHTING OFF AGAINST
RUSSIAN TRACKS AND TANKS RIGHT
NOW. I DON'T THINK ANY OF THOSE
PEOPLE, WHAT HER START ABOUT
TIRED WE ARE OR HOW LATE IT IS.
WE HAVE TIME TO HAVE THIS
DEBATE. THAT'S WHY THE HOUSE
MANAGERS STRONGLY SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT TO SUBPOENA HE
DOCUMENTS FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE. JUST LIKE THE SUBPOENA
FOR ON THE, THE DOCUMENTS SPEAK
DIRECTLY TO ONE OF TRUMP'S
ABUSES. HIS WITHHOLDING, THE
CRITICAL MILITARY AID FROM OUR
PARTNER IN THE UKRAINE TO
FURTHER HIS PERSONAL CLINICAL
CAMPAIGN. $250 MILLION OF
TAXPAYER MONEY WAS PART OF THE
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
INITIATIVE. THESE FUNDS,
APPROVED BY 87 SENATORS IN THIS
ROOM, WOULD PURCHASE ADDITIONAL
TRAINING, EQUIPMENT, AND
ADVISING TO STRENGTHEN THE
CAPACITY OF THE CRANE'S ARMED
FORCES. THE EQUIPMENT APPROVED
INCLUDED SNIPER RIFLES, ROCKET
PROPELLED GRENADE LAUNCHERS AND
READER AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES.
THIS WAS TO BE PURCHASED ALMOST
EXCLUSIVELY FROM AMERICAN
BUSINESSES. THIS EQUIPMENT ALONG
WITH TRAINING PROVIDED BY DOD,
WAS INTENDED TO PROTECT OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY BY HELPING OUR
FRIEND UKRAINE FIGHT AGAINST
BRITAIN'S RUSSIA. IS RUSSIA. THE
PRESIDENT MADE THE ARGUMENT,
WELL, IT MADE IT THERE. THE AIDE
EVENTUALLY MADE IT THERE. THE
DELAY DOESN'T MATTER AND YOU
HEARD ME TALK ABOUT WHAT HE DOES
MATTER. WHAT IT DIDN'T SAY IS
THAT, ALL THE AIDE HASN'T MADE
IT THERE. CONGRESS HAD TO PASS
IN OF THE LAW THAT $35.2 MILLION
OF THAT AID WOULD NOT FIRE. TO
THIS DAY, 18
AND HALF MILLION DOLLARS REMAINS
OUTSTANDING HAS NOT MADE ITS WAY
TO THE BATTLEFIELD. IT WAS DOD
THAT REPEATEDLY ADVISED
THE WHITE HOUSE, ABOUT THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE NOT ONLY UKRAINE, BUT
U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY. IT WAS
DOD IN AUGUST, 2019 WARNED ON
THE THE FREEZE WAS UNLAWFUL IN
THE FUNDS COULD BE LOST AS A
RESULT IT WOULD DOD THE
SCRAMBLED THIRD THE HOLD WAS
LIFTED WITHOUT EXPLANATION ON
SEPTEMBER 11 THIS END OF THE
FUNDS BEFORE THEY EXPIRED AT THE
END OF THE MONTH. WITHOUT A
DOUBT, DOD HUSKY DOCUMENTS THE
PRESIDENT HAS REFUSED TO TURN
OVER CONGRESS. KEY DOCUMENTS
THAT GO TO THE HEART OF THE WAYS
IN WHICH THE PRESIDENT DUE TO
HIS POWER. THE SUBPOENA, THOSE
DOCUMENTS. DOD DOCUMENTS WOULD
PROVIDE INSIGHT INTO CRITICAL
ASPECTS OF THIS AND SHOWED THE
DECISION-MAKING PROCESS AND
MOTIVATION BEHIND PRESIDENTS
JUMPS FREEZE AND REVEAL THE
CONCERN EXPRESSED BY DOD AND ON
THE OFFICIAL THAT WAS VIOLATING
THE LAW. IT WOULD REVEAL OUR
OFFICIALS GRAVE CONCERNS, BUT
THE IMPACT OF THE FREEZE ON
UKRAINE, AND U.S. NATIONAL
SECURITY. IT WOULD SHOW THE
SENIOR DEFENSE OFFICIALLY
RELEASED THE A.
IT WOULD ESTABLISH HIS GAME THE
USER DEFENSE FUNDS TO BENEFIT
HIS PERSONAL POLITICAL CAMPAIGN.
WE ARTS BY COLLATING ABOUT THE
EXISTENCE OF THESE DOCUMENTS.
GUESSING ABOUT WHAT THEY MIGHT
SHOW
DURING THE COURSE OF THE
INVESTIGATION, THE HOUSE
WITNESSES WHO TESTIFIED BEFORE
THE COMMITTEE. ADAPTIVE MULTIPLE
DOCUMENTS DIRECTLY RELEVANT TO
THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY THAT DOD
CONTINUES TO WITHHOLD. WE KNOW
THE DOCUMENTS EXIST THAT WE NOW
THAT THE ONLY REASON HE DOESN'T
HAVE THEM, IS BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT HIMSELF, DIRECTED THE
PENTAGON NOT TO PRODUCE THEM HE
KNOWS WHAT THEY WOULD SHOW. TO
DEMONSTRATE
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE
DOCUMENTS IN THE VALUE THEY
WOULD PROVIDE A MISTRIAL, I
WOULD LIKE TO WALK YOU THROUGH
SOME OF WHAT WE KNOW IT EXISTS
AND THAT TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
CONTINUES TO REFUSE TO TURN OVER
AND AGAIN, BASED ON WHAT IS
KNOWN FROM THE TESTIMONY IN THE
DOCUMENTS, IT IS CLEAR THE
PRESIDENT IS TRYING TO HIDE THIS
EVIDENCE, BECAUSE HE'S AFRAID OF
WHAT IT WOULD SHOW THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE. WE KNOW THAT DOD HAS
DARTMOUTH THAT REVEALED THAT AS
EARLY JUNE, THE PRESIDENT WAS
HOLDING WITHHOLDING MILITARY AID
TO THE UKRAINE AND AS I
MENTIONED EARLIER, THE PRESIDENT
BEGAN QUESTIONING MILITARY AID
JUNE OF LAST YEAR. THIS CAME
DAYS AFTER DOD ISSUED A PRESS
RELEASE ON JUNE 18th, ANNOUNCING
IT WOULD PROVIDE 250 MILLION
PORTION OF THE AIDE TO UKRAINE.
ACCORDING TO PUBLIC REPORTING,
UNDER THIS
SECTOR OF DEFENSE ELAINE
McCARTHY MANAGES THE DOD BUDGET,
SHE LEARNED ABOUT THE PRESIDENT
QUESTION. WE KNOW, THE EMAIL
DOES EXIST. IN RESPONSE TO THE
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION LAWSUIT
THEY WERE FORCED TO RELEASE A
REDACTED EMAIL. THE DOD RELATED
THAT OF THOSE DOCUMENTS TO THE
HOUSE. DEPUTY
LAURA COOPER AND HER TEAM WERE
TASKED BY THE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE RESPONDED TO THE
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE UKRAINE
ASSISTANCE. MS. COOPER
TESTIFIED, SHE PUT THE CANCER IS
IN AND EMAIL AND DESCRIBE THOSE
EMAILS DURING HER DEPOSITION.
SHE TESTIFIED DOD
ASSISTANCE WAS CRUCIAL FOR
UKRAINE AND NATIONAL SECURITY
AND HAD STRONG BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT IN CONGRESS. THAT DOD
PROVIDED NO DOCUMENTS. WITH THIS
PROPOSED MINUTES THE SENATE HAS
AN OPPORTUNITY TO RETAIN THE
FULL RECORD THAT CAN FURTHER
DEMONSTRATE HOW AND WHY
THE PRESIDENT WAS WITHHOLDING
THE AIDE. LAURA COOPER, ALSO
TESTIFIED ABOUT THE INTERAGENCY
MEETING THAT OCCURRED IN LATE
2019. THE MEETINGS AT WHICH DOD
WAS SHOCKED, TO LEARN, PRESIDENT
TRUMP PLACED A MYSTERIOUS HOLD
ON THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE. WE
KNOW WHAT HAPPENED AT SEVERAL OF
THOSE MEETINGS, BECAUSE MS.
COOPER DISSIPATED IN IT. IN SOME
CASES WITH OTHER SENIOR DEFENSE
DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS. HOWEVER,
WE DON'T HAVE LAURA COOPER'S
NOTES FROM THOSE MEETINGS. WE
DON'T HAVE EMAIL SHE SENT TO
SENIOR DOD VERSUS REPORTING NEWS
ABOUT THE PRESIDENT. WE DON'T
HAVE EMAILS THAT SHOW THE
RESPONSE FROM OTHER SENIOR
DEFENSE OFFICIAL PICK A DOD HAS
REFUSED TO PROVIDE THEM.
SEPARATELY. SHE TESTIFIED ABOUT
ONE THEY LEARNED ABOUT THE
SECRET HEALTH ON THE MILITARY.
THE SAME DAY AS THE JULY 25th
CALL TO ZELENSKY, DOD OFFICIALS,
RECEIVED TWO EMAILS FROM THE
STATE DEPARTMENT INDICATING,
THAT OFFICIALS FROM THE EMBASSY,
THEY BECAME AWARE OF THE HOLD
AND WERE STARTING TO ASK
QUESTIONS. SHE TESTIFIED SHE WAS
INFORMED QUOTE
YOU WERE ASKING ABOUT AID"
>>> EARLIER I MENTIONED BY LATE
JULY, OFFICIALS IN OUR EVER MET
RAISED SIGNIFICANT CONCERNS
ABOUT THE LEGALITY OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S HOLD ON MILITARY EIGHT.
WE KNOW THIS FROM WITNESS
TESTIMONY AND DOCUMENTS PRODUCED
WITH THE FREEDOM OF THE ACT
DOCUMENTS.
FOR EXAMPLE, AT AN
INTERAGENCY MEETING., AUGUST 9,
TO SAY THAT IT COULD NO LONGER
CLAIM
THE DELAY I ONLY KNOW THIS
THROUGH RECENT REPORTING DUE TO
THE CONTENTS OF THE EMAIL.
PRESIDENT
TRUMP CERTAINLY HASN'T MADE THIS
INFORMATION PUBLIC. IN RESPONSE
TO THE FREEDOM AT REQUEST THEY
RELEASE THIS AUGUST 9 EMAIL
FROM THE CHIEF BUDGET OFFICER.
AS YOU CAN SEE FROM THE SLIDE IN
FRONT OF YOU IT IS ALMOST
ENTIRELY BLACKED OUT. ACCORDING
TO PUBLIC REPORTING THE EMAIL
SAID,
AS WE DISCUSSED AS OF AUGUST 12
WE DO NOT THINK THAT WE COULD
AGREE THAT IT WILL NOT HAVE
TIMELY EXECUTION AND WE HOPE
THAT WE CAN DO ALL THAT WE CAN
EXECUTE
ONCE THE POLICY DECISION IS
MADE. I CAN NO LONGER MAKE THE
DECLARATIVE STATEMENT. LET ME
INTERPRET WHAT IS ACTUALLY BEING
SAID HERE. WHAT IS ACTUALLY
BEING SAID IS WE ARE IN IN
TROUBLE. WE CANNOT SPEND THE
MONEY AND THE TIME THAT WE HAVE
LEFT AND WE ARE NOT GOING TO
COVER YOUR TRACKS ANYMORE AND
SAY THAT WE CAN. THE EXPENSE OF
REDACTION'S WITH THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT HIGHLIGHTS THE
MINISTRATIONS OF FIRST TO
CONCEAL THE PRESIDENTS
WRONGDOING. AND THEY WHY THE
SENATE MUST SUBPOENA
THE DOCUMENTS, THE  DOD
DOCUMENTS TO SEE WHY THEY ALL
COME TO LIGHT.  YES, THERE IS
MORE. BASED ON THE CONCERNS
EXPRESSED BY OTHERS AT  DOD
OMB  DROP FROM THE DOCUMENTS
THAT THE STATEMENTS WOULD NOT
PRECLUDE ASKED EXECUTION WITH
THE FUNDS. THEY TALKED ABOUT THE
TALKING POINTS
THAT NO ACTION HAS BEEN TAKEN BY
OMB THAT WOULD PRECLUDE THE
OBLIGATION FOR THESE FUNDS BY
THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR, LET
ME ASK WHAT IS GOING ON HERE.
EVERYBODY IS GETTING WORRIED.
EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT SOMETHING
BAD IS ABOUT TO HAPPEN. NOBODY
HAS A GOOD EXPLANATION.
AND NOBODY WANTS TO BE LEFT
HOLDING THE BAG. SO THEY ARE
SENDING THE EMAILS THEY ARE
SENDING THE MEMOS TO SAY I TOLD
YOU SO AND I WILL NOT BE HELD
RESPONSIBLE.  DOD  TOOK ISSUE
WITH THE TALKING POINT AND SHE
DID SO IN IN WRITING. SHE
EMAILED MR. DUFFY THAT THEY WERE
NOT ACCURATE AND THEY HAD BEEN
CONSISTENTLY
CONVEYING THAT NOTE FOR WEEKS.
AGAIN, WE KNOW THIS FROM A PRESS
REPORT NOT FROM DOCUMENTS
PRODUCED BY CONGRESS FROM THE
TRUMP DEMONSTRATION. PRESIDENT
TRUMP DID RELEASE OCCUPANCY
RESPONSE
TO LAWSUIT UNDER THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT. THIS IS WHAT
HER EMAIL LOOKED LIKE WHEN IT
WAS RELEASED BY THE TRUMP
DEMONSTRATION. HER CONCERNS THAT
THE  OMB TALKING POINT WAS, NOT
ACCURATE, WAS AGAIN ENTIRELY
BLACKED OUT. WHAT ELSE IS BEING
HIDDEN FROM THE AMERICAN PEOPLE?
THE SENATE SHOULD ISSUE THE
SUBPOENA. THE  DOD DOCUMENTS
WITH  SHED LIGHT ON THE  OMB
ACTIONS AS THE PRESIDENTS  TEAM
UNRAVELED. ON SEPTEMBER 9, THEY
INFORMED DUFFY THAT THE  DOD
COULD  FALL SHORT WITH SPENDING
.2 MILLION OR MORE WITH THE
HOLD, SHE RESPONDED THAT IT
WOULD BE  DOD'S
FAULT . SHE RESPONDED, YOU
CANNOT BE SERIOUS, I
AM SPEECHLESS. IT WILL COME AS
NO SURPRISE THEN THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION REJECTED THIS
EMAIL TOO
WHEN THEY
PRODUCED THE DOCUMENT THE
CONNECTION WITH THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT LAWSUIT. THANKS
TO PUBLIC REPORTING WE DO KNOW
ITS CONTENTS AND WHAT ELSE IS
BEING HIDDEN FROM THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE? WHAT OTHER REACTIONS DID
THIS EXCHANGE SET OFF WITHIN
DOD ? WERE THOSE CONCERNS
BROUGHT BACK TO THE WHITE HOUSE?
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
DOCUMENT WOULD SHED LIGHT ON
THESE DOCUMENTS. THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE DESERVE ANSWERS. MAKE NO
MISTAKE. THE RECORD BEFORE THE
HOUSE FULLY SUPPORTS THE
CONCLUSION THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
FROZE MILITARY HAD TO PRESSURE
UKRAINE INTO HELPING THE
PRESIDENTS
POLITICAL CAMPAIGN. THE  DOD
DOCUMENTS WOULD PROVIDE FURTHER
EVIDENCE  OF THIS SCHEME. THEY
WOULD EXPOSE THE FULL EXTENT OF
THE TRUTH TO CONGRESS AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND THEY WOULD
FIRMLY REBUT ANY NOTION THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS ACTING ON
CONCERNS OF CORRUPTION OR OTHER
COUNTRIES CONTRIBUTIONS AND THE
PRESIDENT KNOWS IT. IF THERE WAS
ANY DOUBT, RECENT EVENTS SHOWED
THAT  DOD HAS DR. BISSETT ARE
DIRECTLY RELEVANT TO THIS TRIAL.
LA SPOKE ABOUT EARLIER, BEFORE I
WAS A MEMBER OF CONGRESS, I WAS
A SOLDIER IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN I KNOW WHAT IT FEELS
LIKE WHEN YOU DO NOT HAVE THE
EQUIPMENT YOU NEED. THE MEN AND
WOMEN WHO WORK AT THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE AND ADMINISTER THIS
VITAL AID UNDERSTAND THIS
REALITY TOO. THAT IS WHY THEY
REPEATEDLY MADE THE CASE WITH
MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO THE
UKRAINE IS IMPORTANT AND IT
WOULD NOT ONLY HELP UKRAINE TO
BOLSTER OUR TURNS AGAINST
FURTHER RUSSIAN AGGRESSION IN
EURO. EVERY TIME WE HAVE THESE
DISCUSSIONS, THEY MAY SEEM
ABSTRACT TO PEOPLE AROUND THE
COUNTRY. I DO THINK ABOUT THOSE
60,000 U.S. TROOPS THAT WE HAVE
IN EUROPE. MANY OF WHOM, BY THE
WAY, ARE STATIONED THERE WITH
THEIR FAMILIES. THE SPOUSES,
CHILDREN AND HOW THEIR TRAINING
AND WORKING EVERY DAY. THEY WANT
TO HOLD THE LINE AND FIGHT FOR
FREEDOM AND LIBERTY IN EUROPE.
IF THE
WAR IN UKRAINE SPILLS OVER
OUTSIDE OF UKRAINE IT IS THOSE
MEN AND WOMEN THAT WILL HAVE TO
GET INTO THEIR TANKS, IN THE
HELICOPTERS, AND DO
THEIR JOB. UNITED STATES SENATE
CANNOT LET THIS INFORMATION
REMAIN HIDDEN. IT GOES DIRECTLY
TO ONE OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ABUSES OF POWER, AGAIN,
WITHHOLDING AID AND 87 IN THIS
ROOM HAVE
VOTED FOR. THE PRESIDENT, THE
SENATE AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
DESERVE A FAIR TRIAL, LET'S SEE
THE DOCUMENTS AND LET'S SEE THEM
NOW. AND LET THE FACTS SPEAK FOR
THEMSELVES. I WOULD LIKE TO END
BY READING A
SHORT TRANSCRIPT, SOMETHING THAT
I WAS THINKING ABOUT EARLIER
THIS EVENING. THIS IS A
TRANSCRIPT FROM AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR'S TESTIMONY. I WANT TO
TAKE A MINUTE TO READ IT FOR
YOU, TO YOU. HE WAS TALKING
ABOUT A TRIP THAT HE MADE TO
VISIT OUR FRIENDS
IN UKRAINE. WE HAD A MEETING
WITH THE DEFENSE MINISTER, IT
WAS THE FIRST MEETING OF THE
DAY. WE WENT
OVER THERE. THEY INVITED US TO A
CEREMONY THAT THEY HAVE IN FRONT
OF THEIR MINISTRY
EVERY DAY. EVERY DAY THEY HAVE
THIS CEREMONY. IT IS ABOUT A
HALF HOUR CEREMONY WHERE THE
SOLDIERS ARE IN
IN FORMATION, THE DEFENSE
ADMINISTRATOR AND FAMILIES OF
SOLDIERS THAT HAVE BEEN KILLED
ARE ALL THERE. AND THE SELECTION
OF WHICH SOLDIERS ARE HONORED,
SOLDIERS THAT HAVE BEEN KILLED
ARE HONORED, IS ON THE DATE OF
ITS. WHATEVER TODAY'S DATE IS,
YOU KNOW IF WE WERE THERE, TODAY
ON 22 OCTOBER, THE FAMILIES OF
THOSE SOLDIERS THAT WERE KILLED
ON ANY OCTOBER 22 OF THE
PREVIOUS YEARS WOULD
BE THERE.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR WAS TALKING
ABOUT OUR FRIENDS.
AT LEAST 13,000 OF THEM HAVE
GIVEN THEIR LIVES IN THE LAST
FIVE YEARS WITH THE FIGHT FOR
LIBERTY IN EUROPE. THIS, LADIES
AND GENTLEMEN, IS A NATIONAL
DISGRACE. AND ONLY THE PEOPLE IN
THIS ROOM CAN
FIX IT. IT IS TIME TO ISSUE
THE SUBPOENAS. MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
WE RESERVE THE BALANCE OF OUR
TIME TO RESPOND TO THE
PRESIDENTS ARGUMENT.? MR.
SUBLIMITY MR. CHIEF JUSTICE,
THANK YOU.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE, I WILL BE BRIEF,
THIS MAY SEEM
LIKE SOME
DJ VU ALL OVER AGAIN BECAUSE
WE HAVE BEEN ARGUING ABOUT THE
SAME ISSUES, REALLY, OVER, OVER,
AND OVER AGAIN, FOR A LONG TIME.
I THINK IT IS SOMETHING THAT
AMERICANS ONE OF THE THINGS THEY
DO NOT UNDERSTAND ABOUT
WASHINGTON, IS HOW THE HOUSE
THEM ACROSS THE IT IS THE BEST
USE OF THE TIME TO SPEND THIS
ENTIRE DAY DECIDING THE ISSUE OF
WHEN THIS BODY SHOULD DECIDE
ABOUT WHETHER
OR NOT THERE SHOULD BE WITNESSES
AND DOCUMENTS SUBPOENAED, THAT
IS THEY SHOULD BE FOR US NOW
WHETHER THEY SHOULD
BE WITNESSES OR DOCUMENTS AS THE
MAJORITY MADE CLEAR THE
UNDERLYING RESOLUTION SIMPLY
ALLOWS THAT ISSUE TO BE
ADDRESSED, A WEEK FROM NOW. THE
ONLY QUESTION AT
ISSUE NOW, THE HOUSE MANAGERS
KEEP SAYING, HOW COULD YOU HAVE
A TRIAL WITHOUT WITNESSES? HOW
COULD YOU HAVE A TRIAL WITHOUT
DOCUMENTS? THAT IS NOT THE
ISSUE, THE ISSUE IS WHETHER YOU
HAVE TO DECIDE THE ISSUE, TO
SUBPOENA DOCUMENTS OR WITNESSES
NOW OR DECIDE IT IN WEEK AFTER
HERE THE PRESENTATION. WHY ARE
THEY SO EAGER? WHY IS IT
NECESSARY TO MAKE THAT DECISION
WITHOUT HAVING MORE INFORMATION?
IN THE CLINTON TRIAL, THIS BODY
AGREED 100
TO 0 THAT IT WOULD MAKE SENSE TO
HAVE MORE INFORMATION THAT IT
WAS RATIONAL TO HAVE MORE
INFORMATION TO HEAR THE
PRESENTATION AND THEN DECIDE
WHAT MORE WAS NECESSARY. WHY IS
IT
SO IMPORTANT
THAT YOU HAVE GOT TO MAKE THAT
DECISION NOW WITHOUT THAT
INFORMATION? THAT DOES NOT MAKE
ANY SENSE. THE RATIONAL THING TO
DO IS SAY HERE WHAT SORT OF CASE
THEY PRESENT AND A PORTLY TO
HEAR THE PRESIDENTS DEFENSE
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT HAD NO
OPPORTUNITY, IN THE HOUSE, TO
PRESENT ANY DIFFERENT. WE HEARD
A LOT ABOUT THE RULE OF LAW AND
PRESIDENT WHAT WAS UNPRECEDENTED
WAS THE PROCESS THAT WAS USED IN
THE HOUSE. A PROCESS THAT BEGAN
WITHIN AN IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
WITHOUT A VOTE FROM THE HOUSE,
THIS WAS A POINT THAT I MADE
EARLIER. IT IS NOT TO ANY SINGLE
MEMBER OF THE HOUSE THE PRESS
CONFERENCE THAT SPEAKER POLICY
HELD ON SEPTEMBER 24 DID NOT
VALIDATE OR DID IT VALIDATE AND
GIVE POWER TO ISSUE TO ISSUE A
SUBPOENA WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
THE  DOD DOCUMENTS WHAT EFFORTS
DID THEY MAKE TO  GET THESE DOG
MEDS THAT YOU WOULD
DO THIS UNAUTHORIZED UNDER THE
CONSTITUTION, IT
WAS UNPRECEDENTED BECAUSE IT WAS
WITH AN IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
REPORTEDLY WITHOUT ANY VOTE FROM
THE HOUSE AND IT NEVER HAPPENED
BEFORE IN A OUR HISTORY WITH THE
PRESIDENTIAL IMPEACHMENT. IT WAS
UNLAWFUL, IT WAS UNAUTHORIZED,
AND THAT IS WHY NO DOCUMENTS
WERE PRODUCED.
THEY MADE NO OTHER EFFORTS TO
PURSUE THAT. SO, WE HAVE HEARD
ABOUT THE RULE OF LAW IT APPLIES
TO HOUSE DEMOCRATS AS WELL AND
THEY DIDN'T ABIDE BY IT. IT WAS
UNPRECEDENTED TO HAVE A PROCESS
IN WHICH THE PRESIDENT HAD NO
OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT HIS
DEFENSE, NO
OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT WITNESSES
AND NO OPPORTUNITY TO BE
REPRESENTED BY COUNSEL AND NO
EVIDENCE WHATSOEVER, IN THREE
ROUNDS OF HEARING. THEY WILL
MENTION IT IN THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE THAT THEY GIVE HIM
RIGHT BUT WITH THAT HEARING THE
SPEAKER ANNOUNCED THE CONCLUSION
THAT ARTICLES WOULD BE DRAFTED
AND THE COMMITTEE HAD DECIDED
THEY WOULD HEAR NO FACT
WITNESSES. THERE WERE NO RIGHT
FOR THE PRESIDENT SO IT MAKES
SENSE, WHAT IS RATIONAL, WHAT
100 SENATORS 21 YEARS AGO
THOUGHT WAS RATIONAL TO HEAR A
CASE THAT COULD BE PRESENTED ON
THE RECORD ESTABLISH A FAR AND
THEN DECIDE IF SOMETHING ELSE
NEEDS TO BE DONE. LET THE
PRESIDENT MAKE HIS CASE. WE ARE
READY TO GET THIS STARTED. THE
HOUSE MANAGER SHOULD BE AS WELL.
THANK YOU, MR.
CHIEF JUSTICE.? THANK YOU.
>> HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE 38
MINUTES REMAINING.
? MR. CHIEF JUSTICE I WILL
BE BRIEF. COUNSEL FOR THE
PRESIDENT CONTINUES TO SAY A LOT
OF THINGS THAT RUBBED ME THE
WRONG WAY.
HE SAYS, YOU KNOW, WE ARE
TALKING AND SAYING THE SAME
ARGUMENT OVER, OVER, AND OVER
AGAIN. WELL I AM READY TO KEEP
GOING. BECAUSE THIS IS AN
IMPORTANT DEBATE, WE NEED TO
HAVE
IT NOW. HE ALSO SAID, SOMETHING
ABOUT WHAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
DO NOT UNDERSTAND ABOUT
WASHINGTON, I HAVEN'T BEEN HERE
VERY LONG, I CAN TELL YOU THAT I
DO NOT THINK THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
CARE VERY MUCH ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT PEOPLE IN WASHINGTON ARE
SITTING AROUND DEBATING ALL THE
TIME, AND THINKING ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, WHAT YOU ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT RIGHT NOW. BUT THEY ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT, WHETHER
OR NOT WHETHER THEIR GOVERNMENT
IS WORKING FOR THEM. WHETHER OR
NOT THERE IS CORRUPTION IN THE
GOVERNMENT. THAT IS WHAT THEY
UNDERSTAND. AND THAT IS WHAT
THIS DEBATE IS ALL ABOUT.
COUNSEL FOR THE
PRESIDENT SAID, BY NOW, BY THE
INFORMATION NOW. THE BETTER
QUESTION IS, WHY NOT NOW? THIS
TRIAL HAS STARTED. LET'S HAVE
THE FACTS AND THE INFORMATION
NOW. LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, THE
TIME IS RIGHT THERE IS NO REASON
WHY WE SHOULDN'T ISSUE THOSE
SUBPOENAS, GET THE FACTS, GET
THE TESTIMONY, HAVE THE DEBATE,
LET THE AMERICAN PEOPLE SEE WHAT
IS REALLY GOING ON HERE. MR.
CHIEF JUSTICE I WILL YIELD THE
BALANCE OF MY TIME TO MR. CHEF.
-- ADAM SCHIFF.
>> SENATORS, I WILL BE BRIEF, I
WANT TO RESPOND TO A COUPLE OF
THE POINTS THAT MY COLLEAGUES
HAVE MADE. FIRST, AT THE
ARGUMENT THAT
YOU HAVE HEARD BEFORE, AND I'VE
NO DOUBT YOU WILL HEAR IT AGAIN.
THAT THIS IF YOU IS ISSUED BY
THE HOUSE AND THEY ARE INVALID.
WELL, THAT IS REALLY WONDERFUL,
IMAGINE WHEN YOU ISSUE SUBPOENAS
THEY WOULD DECLARE, YOURS
INVALID AS WELL. WHAT IS THE
BASIS OF THE CLAIM BEING INVALID
THEY WERE NOT ISSUED THE WAY
THAT THE PRESIDENT WANTS. PART
OF THE ARGUMENT IS YOU HAVE TO
ISSUE A SUBPOENA THE WAY THAT WE
SAY AND THAT CAN ONLY BE DONE
AFTER THERE IS A RESOLUTION THAT
WE APPROVE OF ADOPTED BY THE
FULL HOUSE. FOR SAKE OF PLAY
THAT THERE WAS NO RESOLUTION, NO
FORMAL RESOLUTION OF THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY THE WHEN WE
PASSED THE FORMER RESOLUTION
THEY COMPLAINED ABOUT THAT. THEY
COMPLAINED WHAT WE DIDN'T HAVE
ONE AND THEN WHEN WE DID HAVE
ONE. THEY HAVE MADE THAT
ARGUMENT ALREADY IN COURT AND
THEY LOST. SIMILARLY, THE
SUBPOENA, IS INVALID. AND YOU
KNOW WHAT THE JUST SAID? THE
SPEC THE
JUDGE SAID, IT IS NONESSENTIAL.
THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T GET TO
DECIDE HOW THE HOUSE CONDUCTS AN
IMPEACHMENT HEARING. THE
PRESIDENT DOESN'T GET TO DECIDE
WHETHER THE SUBPOENA ISSUED IS
VALID OR INVALID?
THE HOUSE GETS TO DECIDE BECAUSE
THE HOUSES GIVEN THE SOLE POWER
OF IMPEACHMENT AND THAT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
COUNSEL SAYS WHY ARE WE GOING
THROUGH ALL THESE DOCUMENTS?
AREN'T
THESE MOTIONS THE SAME. THE FACT
OF THE MATTER IS, WE ARE NOT
TALKING ABOUT THE SAME DOCUMENTS
HERE. THEY WOULD LIKE NOTHING
BETTER THAN FOR YOU TO KNOW
NOTHING ABOUT THE DOCUMENTS THAT
WE SEEK. THEY DO NOT WANT YOU TO
KNOW WHAT
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT DECOROUS
ERROR WITHHOLDING. OF COURSE,
THEY DO NOT WANT TO HEAR THAT.
THEY DO NOT WANT YOU TO KNOW
WHAT STATE DEPARTMENTS ARE
BECAUSE IF IT IS JUST ABSTRACT,
FOR YOU ARE JUST ARGUING FOR
DOCUMENTS, WILL THEY COULD SAY,
BUT THAT IS -- THAT IS NOT
REALLY IMPORTANT, RIGHT? IS THIS
JUST SOME GENERIC THING. BUT
WHAT YOU LEARN AS YOU HAVE
LEARNED TODAY AND TONIGHT WHAT
THOSE DOCUMENTS ARE, WHEN YOU
SEE THE EFFORTS TO CONCEAL THOSE
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
EMAILS THAT MR. CROW, MY
COLLEAGUE, TALKED ABOUT, AND
IT IS REDACTED AND WE FIND OUT
WHAT IS UNDER THOSE REDUCTIONS,
SURPRISE IT IS INCRIMINATING
PERMISSION THEY HAVE REDACTED
OUT, THAT IS NOT SUPPOSED TO BE
THE BASIS OF
REDACTION AND THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT IT IS CALLED, A
COVER-UP. THEY DO NOT WANT YOU
TO SEE THAT TODAY. THEY DO NOT
WANT YOU TO SEE THE BEFORE AND
AFTER THE REDACTED AND THE
NON-REDACTED, THEY WANT YOU TO
HEAR FROM THESE WITNESSES ABOUT
THE DETAILED PERSONAL KNOW SO
THEY TOOK, MASTER TAYLOR TOOK
DETAILED NOTES. THEY WANT TO TRY
TO CONTEST, WHAT THE
AMBASSADOR SAID ABOUT HIS
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT. BECAUSE HE, AFTER HE
TALKED WITH THE PRESIDENT HE
TALKED DIRECTLY WITH AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR AND TALKED
REGULAR WITH MR. MORRISON AND
EXPLAIN THE CONVERSATION WITH
THE PRESIDENT. WELL GUESS WHAT?
MR. MORRISON, AND AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR
TOOK DETAILED NOTES. THERE IS A
DISPUTE ABOUT WHAT THE PRESIDENT
SAID
ABOUT HIM
WOULDN'T YOU LIKE TO SEE THE
NOSE? THEY DO NOT WANT YOU TO
SEE THAT THE NOTES OF THIS THEY
DO NOT WANT TO HAVE THIS DEBATE.
THEY SAY, THIS IS JUST ABOUT
DOCUMENTS. IT IS JUST ABOUT
WENT, WE WANT THE SENATORS OUT
THERE 16 HOURS AFTER QUESTIONS
BEFORE WE SEE ANY OF THE STUFF.
THE WHEN, AS I SAID, EARLIER
MEANS
NEVER. FINALLY, THE CLINTON
PRESIDENT, PRESIDENT CLINTON
TURNED OVER 90,000 PAGES OF
DOCUMENTS BEFORE THE TRIAL. I
AGREE, LET'S FOLLOW THIS THIS
WILL NOT TAKE 90,000 DOCUMENTS.
THE DOCUMENTS ARE ALREADY
COLLECTED, YOU HEARD THE
TESTIMONY ON
THE SCREENED FROM AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR, THEY WILL BE TURNED OVER
SHORTLY. BUT WE ARE STILL
WAITING. BUT THEY ARE STILL
SITTING THERE AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT. WE EVEN PLAYED A
VIDEO FOR YOU, OF THE SECRETARY
ON ONE OF THE SUNDAY SHOWS, THAT
WE
WILL COMPLY WITH THESE SUBPOENAS
THAT WAS ONE WEEK, THEN SOMEBODY
GOT TO HIM AND ALL OF A SUDDEN
HE WAS SINGING A DIFFERENT TUNE.
THEY DO NOT WANT YOU TO KNOW
WHAT THESE
DOCUMENTS HOLD. AND YES, WE ARE
SHOWING YOU WHAT THESE WITNESSES
COULD TELL YOU. WE ARE SHOWING
YOU WHAT MULVANEY COULD TELL
YOU. YES, WE ARE MAKING IT HARD
FOR YOU. WE ARE MAKING IT HARD
FOR YOU TO SAY NO. WE ARE MAKING
IT HARD FOR YOU TO SAY WE DO NOT
WANT TO HEAR FROM THESE PEOPLE
WE DO NOT WANT TO SEE THE
DOUGLAS IT IS NOT OUR JOB TO
MAKE IT EASY FOR YOU. OUR JOB TO
MAKE IT HARD AND DEPRIVE THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE OF A FAIR TRIAL.
THAT IS WHY WE ARE TAKING THE
TIME TO DO IT. I YIELD BACK. 3
THE
MAJORITY LEADER, RECOGNIZE.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE I MAKE A
MOTION TO TABLE THE AMENDMENT.
>> IS THERE A PHYSICIAN IS IT IS
THERE A SUFFICIENT SECOND.
>> MR. ALEXANDER, AYE. MS.
BALDWIN,
MR. BENNETT, MR. BLACKBURN, AYE
MISSES BLUMENTHAL. MR. BOOKER,
NO, MR. BOZEMAN, A BRAUN. MR.
BROWN, MR. BURKE,
MS. CANTWELL, MR. CARDEN, MR.
CARPER, MR. CASEY.
>> NO
>> MS. COLLINS, MR. NO.
>>.
>> MR. CORNYN.
>> MR.
COTTON. AYE?
>> MR. KRAMER. MR. CRUZ
MR. DAINES WAS STUCK WORTH. MR.
DURBIN. NO.
>> MISSES ERNST, MISSES FISHER.
MR. GARDNER.
MR. GRAHAM. MR. GRASSLEY. MISS
HARRIS. MS. HASSAN. MR. HOLLY.
AYE
>>
>> MS. HERRERA NO,
MR. HOVEN. MISSES
HEIDI SMITH. MR. JOHNSON.
MR. JONES. MR. KANE. MR.
KENNEDY.
MR. KING. MR. LANGFORD.
>> AYE.
>> MR. LEAHY,
MISSES LEFFLER, MR. MANCHIN.
MR. MARKET, MR. MENENDEZ. MR.
MERKLEY, MR. MORAN.
>> AYE.
>> MR. MURPHY, MISSES MURRAY.
MR. PAUL,
>> AYE.
>> MR. PERDUE, MR. PETERS, MR.
PORTMAN
MR. REED. MR. ROBERTS.
>> AYE.
>> MISS ROSEN, MR. ROUNDS, MR.
RUBIO.
MR. SANDERS. MR. SASS.
>> AYE.
>> MR. SHOTS, MR. SCHUMER. MR.
SCOTT OF FLORIDA.
>>
AYE.
>> MR. SCOTT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
MR. SHELBY. MS. CINEMA.
MS. SMITH. MR. SULLIVAN.
>> AYE.
>> MR. TESTER,
MR. TILLIS AYE.
>>.
>> MR. VAN HOLLEN.
MR. WARNER.
MISS WORN.
>> NO.
>> MR. YOUNG. MR. WYDEN.
? ARE THERE ANY SENATORS IN THE
CHAMBER THAT WOULD LIKE TO
CHANGE HIS OR HER VOTE? IF NOT,
THE AT 1253 AND THE NAYS 47,
THE AMENDMENT
IS TABLED. THE AYES  IS 53 AND
THE NAYS  IS 47.
>> I WOULD LIKE
TO ISSUE SUBPOENAS AND I WOULD
LIKE THAT THEY ARE RED.
>> THE CLERK
WILL REPORT.
>> THE SENATOR FROM NEW YORK MR.
SCHUMER POSES AMENDMENT 289 AT
THE APPROPRIATE PLACE OF THE
CLAUSE INSERT THE FOLLOWING,
SECTION WOULD NOT WITH STANDING
ANY RESOLUTION OF THIS PROVISION
PURSUANT TO RULES 5 AND 6 WITH
SENDING ON THE IMPEACHMENT
TRIALS
THE CHIEF TESTED TO THE
SECRETARY THE SENATE SHOULD
LETTER A ISSUE A SUBPOENA FOR
THE TAKING OF A MONEY FOR MR.
BLAIR AND ISSUE A SUBPOENA FOR
THE TESTIMONY OF MICHAEL DUFFY
AND 2 THE SERGEANT OF ARMS IS
UTILIZED THE DEPUTY SERGEANT OF
ARMS OR ANY OTHER EMPLOYEE OF
THE SENATE WITH SERVING A
SUBPOENA BY THE SECTION.
>> THE AMENDMENT IS ARGUABLE BY
THE PARTIES FOR TWO ARIS THE
SPEC HOURS, MR. SCHIFF, ARE YOU
AN
OPPONENT?
>> MR. SCHIFF, THE HOUSE
MANAGERS
CAN RECEIVE AND HAVE TIME FOR
REBUTTAL.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, SENATORS,
COUNSEL FOR THE PRESIDENT GOT MY
NAME IS SYLVIA GARCIA, I AM A
CONGRESSWOMAN FROM TEXAS IN THE
HOUSTON REGION.
YOU KNOW, I HAVE BEEN SITTING
FOR SOME TIME AS WELL AS YOU.
AND, IT BROUGHT TO MIND THE MANY
YEARS THAT I HAVE SPENT AS A
JUDGE, JUSTICE,, JUST AS ALL OF
YOU ARE JUDGES IN IN THIS
HEARING, IT IS IMPORTANT THAT I
SAY IF YOU WORDS BEFORE I START
OUR ARGUMENT FOR THIS AMENDMENT.
BECAUSE THE SCHEME OF THINGS, IT
IS REALLY NOT THAT VERY
COMPLICATED. THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE, EVERY DAY, AMERICANS
KNOW WHAT A TRIAL
LOOKS LIKE.
WHETHER THEY HAVE SEEN IT ON P
REMAIN IN, OR LAW AND ORDER OR
MAYBE THEY HAVE BEEN IN COURT
THEMSELVES. THEY KNOW WHAT A
TRIAL IS. IT IS ABOUT MAKING
SURE THAT PEOPLE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD, BOTH
SIDES, IT IS ABOUT WITNESSES, IT
IS ABOUT DOCUMENTS, IT IS ABOUT
GETTING A FAIR SHOT. AND THAT IS
ALL THAT WE ARE ASKING FOR
TODAY. WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE HAVE THE AMERICAN PEOPLE THE
TRIAL THAT THEY EXPECT. TO MAKE
SURE THAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
KNOW THAT THIS RESIDENT NEEDS TO
BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE BECAUSE IF
IT WERE THEY, WHO ARE ACCUSED OR
ALLEGED TO HAVE DONE SOMETHING,
THEY WOULD WANT THE SAME THING.
SO FOR ME, IT IS ABOUT
MAKING SURE THAT WE GET A FAIR
TRIAL. WHICH IS WHY I AM HERE
REPRESENTING THE HOUSE MANAGERS
TO STRONGLY SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT TO SUBPOENA ROBERT
BLAIR AND MICHAEL DUFFEY. PLAYER
AND DUFFY ARE THE TWO OFFICIALS
THAT CARRIED OUT PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S ORDER TO FREE, FREEZE
FILED SUIT MILITARY AID. IT WAS
UNCOVERED IN
THE BASEMENT THIS MONEY THEIR
TESTIMONY WILL FURTHER AFFIRM
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD NO
LEGITIMATE POLICY REASON FOR THE
ORDER. BLAIR WORKS IN THE WHITE
HOUSE AS A SENIOR ADVISOR TO THE
ACTING CHIEF OF STAFFWILL VEINY.
DUFFY IS UP  POLITICAL APPOINTEE
HE WORKS IN THE
OFFICE OF OFFICE IMAGINED HE
SERVES AS THE ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR
FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY
PROGRAMS, BOTH WERE SUBPOENAED
BY THE HOUSE INVESTIGATIVE
COMMITTEES. BOTH WERE ORDERED
NOT TO APPEAR SO BOTH FAILED TO
APPEAR FOR THE SCHEDULED THE
POSITIONS. DESPITE REPEATED
OUTREACH AND DESPITE THE LEGAL
DUTY TO COMPLY. BLAIR AND DUFFY
ARE NOT HOUSEHOLD NAMES MANY
PEOPLE HAVE NOT HEARD OF THEM
BUT THEY OPERATED THE MACHINERY
OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH. THEY
IMPLEMENTED PRESIDENT
TRUMPS INSTRUCTION TO FREE THE
MILITARY AID TO UKRAINE THEY
COMMUNICATE ABOUT THE FREEZE
WITH EACH OTHER WITH MULVANEY,
WITH THE  OMB DIRECTOR  AND THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, THEY
STOOD AT THE CENTER OF THIS
TANGLED WEB.
SOME OF THEIR COMMUNICATIONS ARE
KNOWN TO US FROM THE TESTIMONY
OF OTHER WITNESSES BEFORE HOUSE
COMMITTEES. OTHER COMMUNICATIONS
HAVE BEEN REVEALED THROUGH
PUBLIC REPORTING AND THE FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION ACT RELEASES. BUT
THESE COMMUNICATIONS ONLY PARTLY
PENETRATE THE SECRECY IN WHICH
PRESIDENT TRUMP SOUGHT
TO CLOSE WITH HIS INSTRUCTIONS
TO FREEZE MILITARY AID TO A
VULNERABLE
DEADERICK PARTNER -- STRATEGIC
PARTNER. EVIDENCE CONFIRMS THAT
OFFICIALS THROUGHOUT THE
GOVERNMENT WERE STUMPED,
LITERALLY STUMPED ABOUT WHY THE
FREEZE
WAS HAPPENING. THEY REPORTED
THAT WHEN THEY TRIED TO GET
EXPLANATIONS FROM
THE TWO, CONSISTENT WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S EFFORT TO HIDE
ALL EVIDENCE, THEY HAVE DEFIED
THE HOUSES SUBPOENAS AT THE
PRESIDENTS DIRECTION. TO EXPLAIN
WHY THIS AMENDMENT SHOULD BE
PASSED, I WOULD LIKE TO WALK YOU
THROUGH SOME KEY EVENTS WHICH
THE TWO
PARTICIPATED IN.
TO START, THE TWO WERE DIRECTLY
INVOLVED IN THE INITIAL STAGES
OF
PRESIDENT TRUMPS FREEZE OF THE
MILITARY AID BRIGADOON 18 THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ISSUED A
STATEMENT THAT THEY WOULD
PROVIDE THE 250 MILLION PORTION
TO THE ASSISTANCE OF UKRAINE AND
THAT UKRAINE MET ALL THE
CONDITIONS FOR RECEIVING THE
MONEY. THE VERY NEXT DAY ON
JUNE 19, BLAIR  AND HIS
ASSISTANT THE ACTIVE
DIRECTOR CALLED,  OMB TO TALK
ABOUT THE MILITARY TO UKRAINE,
ACCORDING TO PUBLIC REPORTS
BLAIR,
WE NEED TO HOLD IT UP. THAT SAME
DAY, DUFFEY  EMAILED THE DEPUTY
UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE,
McCUSKER  OF THE MILITARY AID
THEY FAILED TO PRODUCE THAT
EMAIL TO THE HOUSE AND ALL OF
THEIR DOCUMENTS AND A COPY OF
THAT EMAIL WAS RECENTLY
PRODUCED AND IT WAS IN RESPONSE
TO THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
ACT LAWSUIT. IN
THE EMAIL DUFFEY INFORMED  DOD,
THE PRESIDENT HAS ASKED  ABOUT
THIS
FUNDING RELEASE. DUFFEY , A
CAREER OFFICIAL WHO REPORTS TO
HIM AND TESTIFIED BEFORE THE
HOUSE ABOUT
THIS EMAIL.
THEY PROVIDED THE REQUESTED
INFORMATION TO HIM WHICH HE
SHARED WITH DUFFEY THESE
COMMUNICATIONS  RAISE MANY
QUESTIONS ABOUT BLAIR  AND
DUFFEY
AND  THEY ARE IN THE BEST
POSITION TO PROVIDE ANSWERS. FOR
EXAMPLE, WHO ARE WHAT PROMPTED
BLAIR  TO TELL THEM THAT  OMB
NEEDED TO FREEZE THE
AID? WHO? WHAT REASON WAS BLAIR
GIVEN  AND WHO INSTRUCTED DUFFEY
TO REACH OUT TO THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE? WHO TOLD HIM THAT
THE PRESIDENT
HAD QUESTIONS. AND WHAT WERE
THOSE QUESTIONS? AND DID BLAIR
AND DUFFEY  HAVE TWO MEDICATIONS
ABOUT THE MILITARY AID TO
RETRAIN -- TO UKRAINE WITH THE
PRESIDENT, WHAT ABOUT THE
FUNDING RELEASE? AND UNDER
PRESIDENTS SO-CALLED, QUESTIONS?
DUFFEY AND BLAIR  COULD PROVIDE
THE ANSWERS. THEY COULD EXPLAIN
WHAT DIRECTIONS THEY RECEIVED,
WHEN THEY WERE PROVIDED, AND WHO
PROVIDED THEM. THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE DESERVE TO KNOW THESE
FACTS. THE NEXT
SIGNIFICANT EVENT IN OUR
TIMELINE HAPPENED AT THE END OF
JUNE. ON JUNE 27, BLAIR GOT  AN
EMAIL FROM HIS LOSS, MULVANEY HE
WAS ON AIR FORCE
1 WITH RESIDENT TRUMP. ACCORDING
TO PUBLIC REPORTS MULVANEY ASKED
BLAIR,  DID WE EVER FIND OUT
ABOUT THE MONEY FOR UKRAINE AND
WHETHER WE CAN HOLD IT BACK?
BLAIR RESPONDED, IT WOULD BE
POSSIBLE , BUT HE SAID THEY
SHOULD,
EXPECT CONGRESS TO BECOME
UNHINGED. WHEN
DID MULVANEY AND BLAIR DISCUSSED
THE PRESIDENTS FREEZE ON
MILITARY AID?  WAS THERE FURTHER
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE ISSUE IN
THIS EMAIL? DID MULVANEY EXPLAIN
WHAT WAS SO IMPORTANT TO FREEZE
THE MONEY, EVEN IF IT WOULD COST
CONGRESS, QUOTING AGAIN,
BECOMING UNHINGED? DID THEY
DISCUSS WHY CONGRESS WOULD HAVE
SUCH A STRONG REACTION? AND
WHETHER IT WOULD BE JUSTIFIED?
DID BLAIR  RAISE ANY OBJECTIONS
TO THIS DECISION TO FREEZE THE
FUNDS? THE SENATE COULD OBTAIN
THESE ANSWERS BY HEARING FROM
THESE WITNESSES DIRECTLY. LET'S
MOVE ON TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE FREEZE. DESPITE THE WARNING
FROM BLAIR ON HOW CONGRESS WOULD
REACT PRESIDENT TRUMP  ORDERED A
FREEZE ON THE MILITARY AID TO
UKRAINE IN JULY. BLAIR AND
DUFFEY WERE DIRECTLY  INVOLVED
WITH EXECUTING THE PRESIDENTS
ORDER. TO BE CLEAR, CERTAIN
DECISIONS WERE SHROUDED IN IN
SECRECY BY KEY ACTIONS HAVE BEEN
REVEALED. ON JULY 3 THE STATE
DEPARTMENT TOLD VARIOUS
OFFICIALS THAT  OMB WAS BLOCKING
IT  TO SPEND THE $41 MILLION OF
THE EIGHT, MORE SPECIFICALLY,
OMB  DIRECTED THE STATE
DEPARTMENT NOT TO SEND A
NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS ABOUT
SPENDING THE AID. WITHOUT THAT
NOTIFICATION IT WAS EFFECTIVELY
FROZEN. WHO FROM  OMB ORDERED TO
STATE DEPARTMENT  NOT TO SEND IT
CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION? DID
THEY GIVE A REASON? WE JUST DO
NOT KNOW. BUT, REMEMBER,
PRESIDENT TRUMP, FOR HIS
INSTRUCTION  OMB AND THE STATE
DEPARTMENT REFUSED  TO PRODUCE A
SINGLE DOCUMENT TO THE HOUSE,
BUT THE DIRECTION ALMOST
CERTAINLY CAME FROM DUFFEY OR
ONE OF HIS SUBORDINATES  ACTING
ON BEHALF OF THE PRESIDENT. WE
ALSO KNOW THAT ON JULY 12, BLAIR
SENT AN EMAIL TO DUFFEY,
DUFFEY, MARK
SANDY  SOUGHT THE EMAIL AND
DESCRIBED IT IN HIS TESTIMONY
BEFORE THE HOUSE, AS SANDY
TESTIFIED IT WAS BLAIR WHO
CONVEYED  THAT, THE PRESIDENT IS
DIRECTING A HOLD ON MILITARY
SUPPORT FUNDING FOR UKRAINE. AND
THAT EMAIL ONLY ADDRESSED
UKRAINE.  BLAIRS EMAIL RAISES
SEVERAL QUESTIONS, BUT OTHER
DISCUSSIONS TOOK PLACE ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT'S DECISION TO FREEZE
THE AID? THIS DID THE
PRESIDENT GIVE PERMISSION FOR
THE FREEZE? DID BLAIR NOTE THAT
THE PRESIDENT WAS HOLDING THE
AID WITH THE POLITICAL RIVAL? WE
ALSO KNOW TWO DAYS BEFORE
ALLAIRE SENT HIS EMAIL TO DUFFEY
, THEY TOLD UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS THAT THEY HAD A DEAL
WITH MULVANEY. THE DEAL OF
CONSISTING A WHITE HOUSE VISIT
FOR PRESIDENT ZELINSKI AND
UKRAINE CONDUCTING THE POLITICAL
INVESTIGATIONS THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP THOUGHT, THAT IS WHAT
ATTEMPTED THE MASSETER TO SAY
THAT HE WAS, NOT PART OF WHAT
EVER
DRUG DEAL THE TWO ARE COOKING
UP.
BLAIR IS MULVANEY'S SENIOR
ADVISOR, DID BLAIR KNOW ABOUT
THE DEAL? DID HE KNOW THAT THERE
WAS LEVER AND AND WITH THE
OFFICIAL WHITE
HOUSE VISIT. TO GET THE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE TO
INVESTIGATE HIS POLITICAL RIVAL?
THE WHITE HOUSE WAS
UNABLE TO GET ANY REASON FOR THE
HOLD, THROUGHOUT THIS PERIOD,
OFFICIALS ACROSS THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH STARTED ASKING QUESTIONS.
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE FREEZE ON
THE MILITARY AID. AROUND JULY 17
OR JULY 18, DUFFEY  EMAILED
BLAIR  HE ASKED ABOUT THE REASON
FOR THE FREEZE BUT HE GOT NO
EXPLANATION. INSTEAD, DUFFEY
INSISTED, WE NEED TO LET THE
HOLD TAKE PLACE. AND THEY
COULD, REVISIT THE ISSUE WITH
THE PRESIDENT LATER.
IN THE HOUSE, WE HEARD TESTIMONY
FROM MULTIPLE OFFICIALS
INCLUDING AMBASSADOR TAYLOR WHO
WAS, UNTIL VERY RECENTLY THE TOP
DIPLOMAT IN UKRAINE, OUR 1. WE
HEARD
FROM OTHER OFFICIALS TO
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, AND  OMB
BUT NO ONE , NO ONE HEARD ANY
CREDIBLE EVIDENCE, ANY CREDIBLE
EXPLANATION FOR THE FREEZE AT
THE TIME.
NO ONE. SENATORS, THINK ABOUT
IT. NOT EVEN OUR
TOP DIPLOMAT TO UKRAINE, HAD ANY
IDEA AS TO WHY THE PRESIDENT HAD
ORDERED THE FUNDS FROZEN. THAT
IS SHOCKING. THAT SHOULD WORRY
EVERY SINGLE ONE OF US HERE.
HERE ARE SOME OF THE WITNESSES.
THEY ARE UP ON THE SLIDE. AGAIN,
NO ONE, NO ONE
SAYS WHY THIS DECISION MADE SO
SECRETLY AND WITHOUT ANY
EXPLANATION, WHY WAS
THE PRESIDENT COMPROMISING THE
SAFETY OF A STRATEGIC ALLY IN
THE REGION? WHY WAS HE HARMING
OUR NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST
IN THE PROCESS? ON
JULY 26, DUFFEY ATTENDED A
MEETING FOR  THE HIGH LEVEL
EXECUTIVE BRANCH OF OFFICIALS,
HE MADE CLEAR THAT THE FREEZE ON
MILITARY AID WAS
MADE ON PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
EXPRESS DIRECTION BUT APPARENTLY
HE COULD NOT CLEARLY EXPLAIN
WHETHER IT WAS A
FREEZE BEYOND A VAGUE REFERENCE
TO CONCERNS
ABOUT CORRUPTION. WITNESSES WHO
TESTIFIED BEFORE THE HOUSE ALL
PROVIDED THE SAME CONSISTENT,
RECOUNTING OF WHAT HAPPENED. AS
YOU CAN SEE FROM THE STATEMENTS
ON THE SLIDE, OFFICIALS WERE NOT
PROVIDED, CLEAR EXPLANATION FOR
SUCH A DRAMATIC STEP. AS WE HAVE
ALREADY DISCUSSED EARLIER WE
WILL EXPLAIN IN MORE DEPTH
DURING THE TRIAL, THESE FACTS
CONTRADICT THE WHITE HOUSE'S
RECENT CLAIMS OF WHY PRESIDENT
TRUMP FROZE THE UKRAINE AID,
THOSE FACTS CLEARLY SHOW A FIRST
BY THIS PRESIDENT AND THOSE
AROUND HIM TO FABRICATE
EXPLANATIONS AFTER THE
PRESIDENT, HIS LEGAL SCHEME CAME
TO LIGHT. AND FAKE -- IN FACT,
THE COUNSEL OF THE FREEZE FOUND
THAT MULVANEY AND  OMB ATTEMPTED
TO CREATE AN AFTER-THE-FACT
JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PRESIDENTS
DECISION. THAT IS A POLITE WAY
OF SAYING, DEVANEY'S TEAM LED AN
EFFORT TO COVER UP THE
PRESIDENTS CONDUCT. IT IS
MISLEADING, PRETEXTUAL
EXPLANATIONS TO HIDE
THE CORRUPTION. BUT, SENATORS,
THERE
ARE MORE, BLAIR AND DUFFEY WERE
INVOLVED IN THE EVENTS
SURROUNDING  THE PRESIDENTS JULY
25 PHONE CALL WITH PRESIDENT
FILIPSKI, ON
JULY 19, BLAIR ALONG WITH OTHER
OFFICIALS RECEIVED AN EMAIL FROM
THE AMBASSADOR, THE EMAIL
DESCRIBED A CONVERSATION THAT HE
HAD JUST HAD WITH THE PRESIDENT
AND THE INVESTORS STATED, THAT
SO LINSKY WAS PREPARED TO
RECEIVE
NOTICE, CALLED AND WOULD ASSURE
HIM THAT HE INTENDS TO RUN A
FULLY TRANSPARENT INVESTIGATION
AND WILL TURN
EVERY STONE. AS REFLECTED IN IN
THIS EMAIL AND CONFIRMED BY HIS
TESTIMONY THE AMBASSADOR HELPED
THE PRESIDENT PREPARE FOR HIS
JULY 25 PHONE CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP. TELLING HIM IT
WAS TO ASSURE PRESIDENT TRUMP
THAT HE WOULD CONTRACT CONDUCT
THE
INVESTIGATION. AND IT WAS
REPORTED BACK TO BLAIR AND
OTHERS
THAT RESIDENT ZELENSKY TO DO
JUST THAT.  IT WAS IN THE LOOP
ON THE SCHEME. WHY WAS BLAIR
PART OF THIS GROUP? WAS HIS
INVOLVEMENT -- WHAT WAS HIS
INVOLVEMENT WAS THAT SETTING UP
THE CALL? WHAT DID HE UNDERSTAND
THE MESSAGE FROM SONDLAND TO
MEAN ? WHAT DID HE KNOW ABOUT
THE INVESTIGATIONS SOUGHT BY THE
PRESIDENT? DID HE HAVE ANY
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE PRESIDENT
OR MULVANEY ABOUT THE PRESIDENTS
REQUEST FOR THE INVESTIGATION?
WE NEED THE TESTIMONY OF BLAIR
TO ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS.  AND
THEN, SIX
DAYS LATER. BLAIR WAS IN THE
SITUATION ROOM
LISTENING IN, LISTENING IN ON
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S JULY 25 CALL
WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  HE
HEARD HIM RAISE THE
ISSUE OF U.S. AID TO  UKRAINE,
HE HEARD  PRESIDENT TRUMP
RESPOND
BY ASKING, ASKING FOR A FAVOR.
NAMELY, INVESTIGATIONS OF THE
2016 ELECTION AND OF VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN. THE HOUSE HEARD
THE TESTIMONY OF THREE OF THE
OTHER OFFICIALS WHO LISTENED IN
THE PRESIDENTS JULY 25 CALL,
DIRECTLY LISTENED IN, THE
LIEUTENANT AND
KIM MORRISON AND JENNIFER
WILLIAMS. EACH OF THEM EXPRESSED
CONCERNS ABOUT THE CALL. BUT THE
COLONEL AND MORRISON IMMEDIATELY
REPORTED THE
CALL TO NSC LAWYERS, JENNIFER
WILLIAMS SAID THAT THE CALL,
STRUCK HER AS UNUSUAL
AND INAPPROPRIATE., AND MORE
POLITICAL IN NATURE. SENATORS,
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE TO
HEAR IF HE SHARED THE CONCERNS
OF THE OTHER OFFICIALS WHO
LISTENED TO THE PRESIDENTS CALL,
WAS -- WHAT WAS HIS REACTION TO
THE CALL? DID HE TAKE NOTES? WAS
HE AT ALL CONCERNED LIKE THE
OTHER OFFICIALS? DID HE KNOW
EXACTLY WHAT WAS HAPPENING
AND WHY? DID THE EVIDENCE THAT
WE HAVE SUGGEST THAT HE DID
KNOW, THAT THE SENATE COULD HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO ASK
HIM RECTALLY.
-- DIRECTLY. 90 MINUTES AFTER
THE JULY 25 CALL, PLAYERS
CONTACT AT  OMB, MICHAEL DUFFEY
SAID HE SENT THE OFFICIALS AT
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO
MAKE SURE THAT  OMB CONTINUED TO
FREEZE THE MILITARY AID  THAT
UKRAINE  SO DESPERATELY NEEDED.
THIS EMAIL, LIKE ALL OTHERS, WAS
NOT PRODUCED TO THE HOUSE.
HOWEVER, IT WAS PRODUCED
PURSUANT TO
COURT ORDER AND THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT LAWSUIT. AS THE
EMAIL
REFLECTS, AND DUFFEY TOLD THE
OFFICIALS THAT BASED ON THEIR
GUIDANCE  THEY SHOULD HOLD OFF
ANY ADDITIONAL  DOD OBLIGATIONS
OF THESE FUNDS. DUFFEY ADDED
THAT THE REQUEST WAS SENSITIVE
AND THEY SHOULD KEEP THIS
INFORMATION
CLOSELY HELD. AND RAISING
QUESTIONS THAT DUFFEY SHOULD
ANSWER, WHAT  EXACTLY WAS THE
GUIDANCE THAT DUFFEY RECEIVED,
WHO GAVE IT TO HIM
WAS THAT CONNECTED TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S PHONE CALL? AND WHY WAS
IT SO SENSITIVE THAT HE DIRECTED
DOD TO KEEP IT CLOSELY HELD?
THE SENATE SHOULD DEMAND THE
ANSWERS TO
THESE QUESTIONS. THE SENATE
SHOULD ALSO HEAR FROM DUFFEY
WHY
HE ABRUPTLY REMOVED THE CAREER
OMB OFFICIAL THE QUESTION THE
FREEZE ON  MILITARY AID TO
UKRAINE AND WHETHER HE DID SO AT
THE DIRECTION OF THE WHITE HOUSE
OR PRESIDENT TRUMP? THROUGHOUT
JULY MARK SANDY THE ONLY BE
CAREER OFFICIAL THAT HANDLED
MILITARY AID TO CRANE GOT DUFFEY
TO PROVIDE  AN EXPLANATION TO
THE FREEZE. AND OTHER OFFICIALS
FROM THE  OMB AND THE PENTAGON
RAISED QUESTIONS ABOUT  THE
FREEZE WITH THE CONTROL ACT, THE
FEDERAL LAW THAT LIMITS THE
PRESIDENTS ABILITY TO WITHHOLD
FUNDS THAT HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED
BY CONGRESS. IN FACT,
TWO CAREER  OMB OFFICIALS
ULTIMATELY RESIGNED  IN PART,
BASED ON CONCERNS ABOUT THE
HANDLING OF THE
UKRAINE MILITARY, MILITARY AID
FREEZE, THESE CONCERNS WERE NOT
UNFOUNDED. JUST LAST WEEK, THE
NONPARTISAN GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE ISSUED A
DETAILED LEGAL
OPINION FINDING  OMB VIOLATED
FEDERAL LAW  BY EXECUTING THE
PRESIDENTS ORDER TO FREEZE
LETERRIUS AID TO UKRAINE.
REMARKABLY ON JULY 29,
AFTER SANDY HAD EXPRESSED HIS
CONCERN ABOUT THE LEGALITY OF
THE FREEZE.
DUFFEY , INSTEAD DUFFEY TOOK
OVER RESPONSIBILITY FOR
WITHHOLDING THE AID , IT'S OFF.
HE WAS A POLITICAL APPOINTEE HE
HAD NO
RELEVANT EXPERIENCE HE HAD NO
DEMONSTRATION OF INTEREST IN
SUCH MATTERS. HIS LAST JOB HAS
BEEN AS THE STATE LEVEL
REPUBLICAN PARTY OFFICIAL. HE
TOOK OVER RESPONSIBILITY FOR
WITHHOLDING AID, HE GAVE NO
EXULTATION FOR HIS DECISION HE
ONLY SAID, THAT HE WANTED TO
BECOME, MORE INVOLVED IN
DAILY
OPERATIONS., SANDY WHO HAS
DECADES OF EXPERIENCE TESTIFIED
THAT NOTHING LIKE THIS HAVE EVER
HAPPENED LIKE THIS IN
HIS CAREER. HIS BOSS, POLITICAL
.8 JUST HAPPEN TO HAVE A SUDDEN
INTEREST IN BEING MORE HANDS-ON.
AND WAS LASER FOCUSED
EXCLUSIVELY
ON UKRAINE. THE SENATE SHOULD
ASK DUFFEY, WHY HE TOOK OVER
THE HANDLING OF THE UKRAINE
MILITARY AID. WAS HE DIRECTED
TO? WHY
WAS SANDY
REMOVED FROM HIS RESPONSIBILITY
OVER UKRAINE AID WAS IT BECAUSE
HE EXPRESSED CONCERN ABOUT THE
LEGALITY OF THE FREEZE? THESE
QUESTIONS ARE THOSE THAT DUFFEY
WOULD BE ABLE TO ANSWER.  NOW,
WE MOVE ON TO WARNINGS
FROM DOD, AROUND THIS PERIOD IN
LATE JULY AND EARLY AUGUST,
DUFFEY  IGNORED WARNINGS FROM
DOD OF THE LEGALITY OF THE
FREEZE, THE SENATE SHOULD HEAR
FROM HIM  AND JUDGE WHAT HE HAS
TO SAY. THROUGHOUT JULY AND
AUGUST, DUFFEY
EXECUTED PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
FREEZE OF THE MILITARY AID WITH
FUNDING DOCUMENTS THROUGH  OMB
AND  CAREFULLY WORDED FOOTNOTES,
OMB TRIED TO CLAIM  THAT THIS,
WAS A BRIEF PAUSE. AND IT WOULD
NOT AFFECT THE ABILITY OF  DOD
TO SPEND THE MONEY WITH TIME AS
WE NOW KNOW FROM PUBLIC
REPORTING AS OF FREEZE CONTINUED
DOD OFFICIALS GREW MORE MORE
ALARMED. THEY KNEW THAT THE
FREEZE WOULD IMPACT THE  DOD
ABILITY  DESPITE THE FUNDS OF
THE FISCAL YEAR. AND AND VOICING
THE
CONCERNS WITH DUFFEY ON MULTIPLE
OCCASIONS.  FIRST, AND THEN
EMAIL, AUGUST 8, NINTH, McCUSKER
TOLD DUFFEY  THAT THEY COULD NO
LONGER SUPPORT THE CLAIM OF  OMB
THAT IT WOULD NOT  PRECLUDE
TIMELY EXECUTION FOR THE AID FOR
UKRAINE THE EMAIL READ, AS
WE DISCUSSED AS OF AUGUST 12 I
DON'T NOT THINK THAT WE COULD
AGREE THAT IT WOULD PROVIDE
TIMELY EXECUTION AND WE HOPE IT
WON'T AND WE WILL DO ALL WE CAN
TO EXECUTE ONCE THE POLICY
DECISION IS MADE. BUT CAN NO
LONGER MAKE THAT
DECLARATIVE STATEMENT. THEN
AGAIN ON AUGUST 12. McCUSKER
WARNED DUFFEY IN AN EMAIL THE
FOOTNOTES  NEEDED TO INCLUDE A
CAVEAT THAT EXECUTION
RISK INCREASES IN DELAYS, THE
HOUSE NEVER RECEIVED THE
DOCUMENTS FROM  OMB OR
DOD.  WE KNOW WHAT THEY CONTAIN
DUE TO THE PUBLIC REPORTING
DESPITE PERSISTENT EFFORTS BY
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION THE
PENTAGON'S ALARM SHOULD HAVE
RAISED CONCERNS FOR DUFFY. DID
HE SHARE THE CONCERNS WITH
ANYONE ELSE? DID HE AGREE WITH
THE CONCERNS OR TAKE ANY ACTIONS
TO THE RESPONSE DID HE TAKE
DIRECTION FROM BLAIR.
THESE QUESTIONS THESE ARE
QUESTIONS THAT DUFFEY SHOULD
ANSWER DESPITE HIS ACTIONS ,
EXECUTING THE
PRESIDENTS FREEZE
IN AUGUST HE SIGNED OFF ON THE
MEMORANDUM TO THE ACTING
DIRECTOR
THE RECOMMENDED
WHERE THE MILITARY AID WAS
CONSISTENT WITH THE STRATEGY IN
THE REGION, IT SERVED TO COUNTER
RUSSIAN AGGRESSION AND THAT THE
AID WAS ROOTED WITH BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT IN CONGRESS. THIS IS
CONTRARY TO THE ACTIONS OF
DUFFEY LEADING UP TO THE MEMO.
WHAT CHANGE?
WHAT CAUSE DUFFEY TO DISAGREE
WITH THE PRESIDENTS DIRECTION TO
CONTINUE TO WITHHOLD THE AID
DUFFEY SHOULD BE CALLED TO
EXPLAIN.  WHY HE RECOMMENDED
THAT THE PRESIDENT RELEASED THE
AID. WHAT OTHER STEPS
YOU TOOK, AND THE WHITE HOUSE
DISREGARDED THE RECOMMENDATION
BASED ON PUBLIC REPORTING,
WE KNOW AFTER THE PRESS REPORTED
THE FREEZE IN
LATE AUGUST,
THAT WOULD PRECLUDE THE
OBLIGATION OF THE FUNDS.BEFORE
THE END OF
THE ISER 53, THE NOSE ARE
47. OF THE AMENDMENT IS TABLE.'S
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE I SEND AN
AMENDMENT TO THE DESK TO ISSUE A
SUBPOENA TO JOHN ROBERT BOLTON I
ASKED THAT IT BE READ.
>> THE CLERK WILL REPORT.
SENATOR FROM
NEW YORK MR. SCHUMER PROPOSES IN
AMENDMENT NUMBER 1291 AT THE
APPROPRIATE PLACE IN THE
RESOLVING CLAUSE INSERT THE
FOLLOWING SECTION
. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY PROVISION
OF THIS RESOLUTION PURSUANT TO
RULES FIVE AND SIX OF THE RULES
OF THE SIEGE ARE IN PRACTICE IN
THE SENATE WHEN SITTING ON
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. OF THE
CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED
STATES THROUGH THE SECRETARY OF
THE SENATE CELL IS TO A SUBPOENA
FOR THE TAKING OF TESTIMONY OF
JOHN ROBERT BOLTON AND THE
SERGEANT OF ARMS IS YOU
AUTHORIZED TO UTILIZE THE
SERVICES OF THE DEPUTY SERGEANT
OF ARMS OR ANY EMPLOYEE OF THE
SENATE AND SERVING THE A PEANUT
AUTHORIZED BY THIS SECTION.
>> THE AMENDMENT IS AUTHORIZED
BY THE PARTIES FOR TWO HOURS
EQUALLY DIVIDED. MR. MANAGER
SCHIFF ARE YOU AN OPPONENT ? MR.
PALLONE AN OPPONENT. MR. SCHIFF
YOU MAY PROCEED YOU MAY RESERVE
TIME FOR REBUTTAL .
>> BEFORE I BEGIN MR. CHIEF
JUSTICE, THE HOUSE MANAGERS WILL
RESERVE THE BALANCE OF OUR TIME
TO RESPOND TO THE ARGUMENT FOR
THE COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, SENATORS
COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT. HOUSE
MANAGERS STRONGLY SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT TO SUBPOENA JOHN
BOLTON. I'M STRUCK WHAT WE'VE
HEARD TONIGHT. THEY
COMPLAIN ABOUT PROCESS BUT THEY
DO NOT SERIOUSLY CONTEST ANY OF
THE ALLEGATIONS AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT. THEY INSIST THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS DONE NOTHING
WRONG. THAT THEY REFUSED TO
ALLOW THE EVIDENCE AND HEAR FROM
THE WITNESSES, THEY WILL NOT
PERMIT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE TO
HEAR FROM THE WITNESSES AND THEY
LIKE AND LIE
AND LIE. FOR EXAMPLE, FOR
MONTHS, PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS
REPEATEDLY COMPLAINED THAT THE
HOUSE DENIED THE RIGHT TO
WITNESSES AND CROSS-EXAMINE
WITNESSES. YOU HEARD MRS.
PALLONE LIGHT TODAY. I HAVE WITH
ME THE LETTER INVITING THE
PRESIDENT AND HIS COUNSEL TO
ATTEND OUR HEARINGS TO
CROSS-EXAMINE THE WITNESSES TO
CALL WITNESSES OF HIS OWN AND SO
FORTH. AND I HAVE THE LETTER THE
WHITE HOUSE LETTER SIGNED BY
MRS. PALLONE REJECTING THAT
OFFER.
WE SHOULD EXPECT AT LEAST A
LITTLE REGARD FOR THE TRUTH FROM
THE WHITE HOUSE. BUT THAT IS
APPARENTLY TOO MUCH TO EXPECT.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN THIS IS A
TRIAL. AS
AT A TRIAL THE LAWYERS PRESENT
EVIDENCE. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
KNOW THAT. MOST 10-YEAR-OLDS
KNOW THAT. IF YOU VOTE TO BLOCK
THIS WITNESS OR ANY OF THE
EVIDENCE
, IT SHOULD BE PRESENTED HERE,
IT COULD ONLY BE BECAUSE YOU DO
NOT WANT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE TO
HEAR THE EVIDENCE. YOU DO NOT
WANT A FAIR TRIAL. THAT YOU ARE
COMPLICIT IN
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S EFFORTS TO
HIDE HIS MISCONDUCT AND HIDE THE
TRUTH FROM THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
AMBASSADOR BOLTON WAS APPOINTED
BY PRESIDENT TRUMP. HE HAS
STATED HIS WILLINGNESS TO
TESTIFY IN THIS TRIAL. HE IS
PREPARED TO TESTIFY. HE SAID
THAT
HE HAS RELEVANT EVIDENCE NOT YET
DISCLOSED TO THE PUBLIC. HIS
COMMENTS REAFFIRM WHAT IS
OBVIOUS ON THE TESTIMONY AND
DOCUMENTS OBTAINED BY THE HOUSE,
WHICH HIGHLIGHT AND CAPACITOR
BOLTON'S ROLE AND CRITICISM OF
THE PRESIDENT'S MISCONDUCT. IN
FACT, EXTENSIVE EVIDENCE
COLLECTED BY THE HOUSE, MAKES
CLEAR THAT AMBASSADOR BOLTON NOT
ONLY HAD FIRST HAND KNOWLEDGE OF
THE UKRAINE SCHEME, BUT HE WAS
DEEPLY CONCERNED WITH IT. HE
DESCRIBED THE TEAM AS A DRUG
DEAL TO A SENIOR MEMBER OF THE
STAFF. HE WARNED THAT PRESENT
TRUMP'S PERSONAL
LAWYER, RUDY GIULIANI WOULD BLOW
EVERYBODY ELSE UP. IN ADVANCE OF
2019 CALL,
AMBASSADOR BOLTON EXPRESSED
CONCERN THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WOULD ASK THE UKRAINIAN
RESIDENT TO ANNOUNCE THESE
POLITICAL INVESTIGATIONS, WHICH
IS OF COURSE, EXACTLY WHAT
HAPPENED. OF COURSE THERE IS NO
INVESTIGATION, ALL HE CARED
ABOUT WAS THE ANNOUNCEMENT TO
SMEAR THE POLITICAL RIVAL IN THE
RENOVATED STATES. HE REPEATED TO
HIS STAFF TO REPORT THEIR OWN
CONCERNS ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S
COUNCIL.
AS THE SCHEME WAS UNFOLDING. AND
FINALLY HIS NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR, OBJECTED TO THE
MILITARY AID TO THE UKRAINE AND
ADVOCATED FOR THE RELEASE OF
THAT AID IN INCLUDING DIRECTLY
TO PRESIDENT TRUMP. AS WE ALL
KNOW THAT IMPOUNDING CONTROL ACT
MAKES THAT ILLEGAL THE
PRESIDENT'S WITHHOLDING OF THAT
AID. HAVE THE CONGRESS VOTED
FOR. BUT THE PRESIDENT IGNORED
WARNINGS ABOUT THAT BECAUSE ALL
HE CARED ABOUT IS SMEARING THE
POLITICAL RIVAL, THE LAW MEANT
NOTHING TO HIM. IT AMBASSADOR
BOLTON IS WILLING TO TESTIFY
EVERYTHING HE WITNESS. PRESIDENT
TRUMP DOES NOT WANT YOU HERE
FROM AMBASSADOR BOLTON. IT HAS
NOTHING TO DO WITH EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE OR THIS OTHER
NONSENSE. IT HAS NOTHING TO DO
WITH NATIONAL SECURITY. IF
PRESIDENT CARED ABOUT NATIONAL
SECURITY HE WOULD NOT HAVE
LOCKED
MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO A
STRATEGIC ALLY IN AN ATTEMPT TO
SECURE A PERSONAL POLITICAL
FAVOR FOR HIMSELF. THE PRESIDENT
DOES NOT WANT TO HEAR FROM
AMBASSADOR BOLTON, THE PRESIDENT
DOES NOT WANT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE TO HEAR FIRST HAND
TESTIMONY THAT MISCONDUCT IS AT
THE HEART OF THIS TRIAL. THE
QUESTION IS WHETHER THE SENATE
WILL BE COMPLICIT IN THE
PRESIDENT'S CRIMES FOR COVERING
THEM UP. ANY SENATOR THAT VOTES
AGAINST AMBASSADOR BOLTON'S
TESTIMONY OR ANY RELEVANT
TESTIMONY SHOWS THAT HE WANTS TO
BE PART OF THE COVER-UP. THIS IS
A RELEVANT
WEAKNESS FOR TESTIFYING HERE.
UNFORTUNATELY, SO FAR, I'VE SEEN
EVERY REPUBLICAN SENATOR HAS
SHOWN THEY WANT TO BE PART OF
THE COVER-UP BY VOTING AGAINST
EVERY DOCUMENT THEY HAVE
PROPOSED. AMBASSADOR BOLTON IS A
FIRST-HAND WITNESS TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S ABUSE OF POWER.
THE NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR
REPORTED DIRECTLY TO THE
PRESIDENT AND SUPERVISE THE
ENTIRE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL. THAT
INCLUDED THREE KEY WITNESSES
WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR UKRAINE
MATTERS WHO TESTIFIED IN GREAT
DETAIL BEFORE THE HOUSE, BE ON A
HILL, TIM MORRISON AND
LIEUTENANT COLONEL ALEXANDER
VINDMAN.
JOHN BOLTON WAS THE TIP OF THE
SPEAR FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP ON
NATIONAL SECURITY. IT WAS HIS
RESPONSIBILITY TO OVERSEE
EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENED IN THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION REGARDING
FORD POLICY AND NATIONAL
SECURITY. BY VIRTUE OF HIS
UNIQUE POSITION APPOINTED BY THE
PRESIDENT BOLTON HAD KNOWLEDGE
OF INTELLIGENCE WITH UKRAINE
INCLUDING THE SUPPORT OF THE NEW
PRESIDENT. THAT IS WHY THE
PRESIDENT AND SOME MEMBERS OF
THIS BODY ARE AFRAID TO HEAR
FROM AMBASSADOR BOLTON AS THEY
KNOW, HE KNOWS TOO MUCH. THERE
IS ALSO SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE
THAT AMBASSADOR BOLTON KEPT A
KEY EYE ON RUDY GIULIANI WHO WAS
ACTING ON BEHALF OF THE
PRESIDENT. AS WE DESCRIBED,
AMBASSADOR BOLTON COMMUNICATED
DIRECTLY. HE KNOWS THE DETAILS
OF THE DRUG DEAL HE WAS WARNED
AGAINST. PERHAPS MOST
IMPORTANTLY, BOLTON SAID HE WILL
TESTIFY AND THAT HE HAS RELEVANT
INFORMATION THAT HAS NOT YET
BEEN DISCLOSED. A KEY WITNESS
HAS COME FORWARD TO CONFIRM NOT
ONLY THAT HE PARTICIPATED IN
CRITICALLY IMPORTANT AND THAT'S
BUT THAT HE HAS NEW EVIDENCE WE
HAVE NOT YET HEARD. THAT IS
PRECISELY WHAT AMBASSADOR BOLTON
HAS DONE.'S LAWYER TELLS US,
AMBASSADOR BOLTON WAS
"PERSONALLY INVOLVED IN MANY OF
THE EVENTS, MEETINGS AND
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT WHICH THE
HOUSE
HEARD TESTIMONY AS WELL AS MANY
RELEVANT MEETINGS AND
CONVERSATIONS THAT HAVE NOT YET
BEEN DISCUSSED IN THE TESTIMONY
SO FAR". SO FAR HE REFUSED TO
APPEAR VOLUNTARILY, HIS LAWYERS
INFORMED THE HOUSE INTELLIGENT
COMMITTEE THAT IT WOULD TAKE A
SUBPOENA. BUT AMBASSADOR
CHANGED HIS TUNE. HE RECENTLY
ISSUED A STATEMENT CONFIRMING
THAT "THAT IF THE SENATE ISSUES
A SUBPOENA FOR MY TESTIMONY I'M
PREPARED TO TESTIFY.". THE
QUESTION PRESENTED
IS CLEAR. IT COMES DOWN TO THIS,
WILL THE SENATE DO ITS DUTY AND
HEAR ALL THE EVIDENCE? OR WILL
ISLAMIST DOOR SHUT AND SHOW IT
IS PARTICIPATING IN A COVER-UP
BECAUSE IT APPEARS TO HEAR
TESTIMONY FROM THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL, THE CHAIRMAN
FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR TO THE PRESENT BECAUSE
THEY FEAR WHAT HE MIGHT SAY.
THEY FEAR HE KNOWS TOO MUCH.
CONSIDER THIS AS WELL. WHY IS
PRESIDENT TRUMP SO INTENT ON
PREVENTING US FROM HEARING
AMBASSADOR BOLTON, HIS OWN
EMPLOYEE APPOINTEE. HIS OWN
TRUSTED CONFIDANT
. BECAUSE HE KNOWS, HE KNOWS HIS
GUILT AND HE KNOWS THAT HE DOES
NOT WANT PEOPLE WHO KNOW ABOUT
IT TO TESTIFY. THE QUESTION IS,
WHETHER REPUBLICAN SENATORS HERE
TODAY WILL PARTICIPATE IN THAT
COVER-UP.
THE REASON SEEMS CLEAR,
PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTS TO LOCK
THE WITNESS BECAUSE PRESENT
AMBASSADOR BOLTON WANTS TO BLOCK
THE SCHEME THAT WAS CALLED A
DRUG DEAL.
>> THE JULY 25th CALL WITH
AMBASSADOR
ZELENSKY. THAT MEETING INCLUDED
DR. HILL, LIEUTENANT  COLONEL
VINDMAN AND
SONDLAND AND VOLKER AND RICK
PERRY. UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS ASKED
WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
SCHEDULED THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING FOR THE NEWLY ELECTED
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT. BECAUSE
IT WAS VERY IMPORTANT FOR THE
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT, THE NEW
PRESIDENT OF AN EMBATTLED
DEMOCRACY, BEING INVADED BY
RUSSIA, TO SHOW THAT HE HAD
LEGITIMACY BY THE MEETING WITH
THE UNITED STATE'S. TO DR. HILL
TESTIFIED THAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND
SAID HE HAD A DEAL FOR MR.
MULVANEY FOR A WHITE HOUSE
VISIT. THEY ANNOUNCED THE
PRESIDENT'S POLITICALS ARRIVALS.
BOLT AND ENDED THE MEETING.
DR. HILL'S TESTIMONY IS ON THE
SCREEN. AND OTHER WORDS,
AMBASSADOR BOLTON AND OTHERS AT
THE MEETING, THEY WERE
INTERESTED IN NATIONAL SECURITY
OF THE UNITED STATES. THEY WERE
INTERESTED IN PROTECTING AN
AMERICAN ALLY AGAINST RUSSIAN
INVASION. THEY COULDN'T
UNDERSTAND
WHY THIS SUDDEN ORDER WAS COMING
FROM THE PRESIDENT TO ABANDON
THAT ALLY. BECAUSE THEY DID NOT
YET KNOW, THEY DID NOT YET KNOW
THAT THE PRESIDENT'S FOUGHT TO
EXTORT THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT
INTO DOING HIM A POLITICAL FAVOR
BY ANNOUNCING AN INVESTIGATION
OF A POLITICAL RIVAL. WHEN DR.
HILL REPORTED BACK TO
AMBASSADOR BOLTON ABOUT THE
SECOND CONVERSATION, AMBASSADOR
BOLTON TOLD DR. HILL TO GO TO
THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
LEGAL ADVISOR, JOHN EISENBERG
AND TOLD HIM I'M NOT PART OF
WHATEVER DRUG DEAL MULVANEY IS
COOKING UP ON THIS.
>> CYST PACIFIC INSTRUCTION I
HAVE TO GO TO THE LAWYER TO JOHN
EISENBERG OUR SENIOR COUNSEL FOR
THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL TO
BASICALLY SAY YOU TELL EISENBERG
I AM NOT PART OF THIS WHATEVER
DRUG DEAL THAT MULVANEY AND
SONDLAND ARE COOKING UP.
>> WHAT DID YOU UNDERSTAND HIM
DO MEAN BY THE DRUG DEAL THAT
MULVANEY AND SONDLAND WERE
COOKING UP?
>> I
TOOK IT TO MEAN INVESTIGATIONS
AND MEANING.
>> DID YOU SPEAK TO THE LAWYERS?
>> I CERTAINLY DID.
>> THESE STATEMENTS AND EVENTS
ARE REASON ENOUGH TO INSIST
AMBASSADOR BOLTON TESTIFY. HE
CAN ASK LANE THE CHARACTER
RATION AS THE UKRAINE DEAL AS A
DRUG DEAL. AND WHY HE RAISED HIS
CONCERNS TO LEGAL COUNSEL. HE
CAN TELL US EVERYTHING ELSE HE
KNOWS ABOUT HOW AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND, MR. MULVANEY AND
OTHERS ATTEMPTED TO PRESS THE
UKRAINIANS TO DO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S BIDDING.
ONLY AMBASSADOR BOLTON CAN TELL
US WHAT HE WAS THINKING AND WHAT
HE KNEW AS THE SCHEME DEVELOPED
IT THAT IS WHY THE PRESIDENT
FEARS HIS TESTIMONY. THAT IS WHY
SOME MEMBERS OF THE BODY FEAR
HIS TESTIMONY. AMBASSADOR
BOLTON'S INVOLVEMENT WAS NOT
LIMITED TO A FEW ISOLATED
EVENTS, HE WAS A WITNESS AT KEY
MOMENTS OF THE UKRAINIANS
TEAM. ESPECIALLY JULY, AUGUST,
SEPTEMBER OF LAST YEAR. I WOULD
LIKE TO WALK THROUGH SOME OF
THOSE EVENTS. THESE MEMBERS I'M
DESCRIBING THEM, THIS IS NOT THE
ENTIRE UNIVERSE OF ISSUES THAT
AMBASSADOR BOLTON
COULD TESTIFY. ONLY EXAMPLES TO
SHOW WHY HE IS SUCH AN IMPORTANT
WITNESS AND WHY THE PRESIDENT IS
DESPERATE TO BLOCK HIS
TESTIMONY. WE KNOW FROM
AMBASSADOR
BOLTON'S ATTORNEY THERE MAY BE
OTHER MEETINGS AND CONVERSATIONS
THAT HAVE NOT YET COME TO OUR
ATTENTION BUT TO TAKE ONE
EXAMPLE, WE KNOW FROM WITNESS
TESTIMONY THAT A BASSETT WHERE
BOLTON REPEATEDLY EXPRESSED
CONCERNS ABOUT THE INVOLVEMENT
OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PERSONAL
LAWYER, MR. GIULIANI. IN SPRING
AND SUMMER OF 2019, AMBASSADOR
BOLTON CAUGHT WIND OF GIULIANI'S
INVOLVEMENT IN UKRAINE AND BEGAN
TO EXPRESS CONCERN. AMBASSADOR
BOLTON EXPRESSED STRONG CONCERNS
ABOUT GIULIANI'S INVOLVEMENT IN
UKRAINE MATTERS. HE SAID THIS
WAS A HAND GRENADE THAT WAS
GOING TO BLOW EVERYBODY UP. IT
WAS BASED ON HIS FEAR THAT MR.
GIULIANI'S WORK ON BEHALF OF THE
PRESIDENT IS ATTEMPT TO HAVE
UKRAINE ANALYSES INVESTIGATIONS,
SHAM INVESTIGATIONS AND CAMPAIGN
TO SMEAR AND AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH  WOULD BACKFIRE. IT
TURNS OUT, HE WAS RIGHT.
>> DID YOUR BOSS, AMBASSADOR
BOLTON, TELL YOU THAT GIULIANI
WAS "A HAND GRENADE"? WHAT YOU
THINK HE MEANT BY GIULIANI AS A
HAND GRENADE?
>> WHAT HE MEANT WAS PRETTY
CLEAR TO ME IN THE CONTEXT. MR.
GIULIANI WAS MAKING PUBLICLY
ABOUT THE INVESTIGATION THAT HE
WAS PROMOTING, THE STORYLINE HE
WAS PROMOTING, THE NARRATIVE HE
WAS PROMOTING WAS GOING TO
BACKFIRE. I THINK IT HAS
BACKFIRED.
>> IN JUNE, AMBASSADOR BOLTON
BECAME AWARE OF GIULIANI'S
COORDINATION. HE TOLD DR. HILL
AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL STAFF
"NOBODY SHOULD BE MEETING WITH
GIULIANI". HE OF COURSE, DID NOT
KNOW WHY PEOPLE WERE MEETING
WITH GIULIANI
. DR. HILL ALSO TESTIFIED THAT
AMBASSADOR BOLTON WAS CLOSELY
MONITORING WHAT GIULIANI WAS
DOING IN THE MESSAGES HE WAS
SENDING OUT. BOLTON WAS KEENLY
AWARE THAT MR. GIULIANI WAS
DOING THE PRESIDENT'S
BIDDING. THAT IS ALSO WHY THE
PRESIDENT FEARS HIS TESTIMONY.
DURING A MEETING ON JUNE 13th,
2019, AMBASSADOR BOLTON MADE
CLEAR THAT HE SUPPORTED MORE
ENGAGEMENT BY SENIOR WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS. THE QUESTION POSED TO
GIULIANI WAS A KEY VOICE. EVERY
TIME YOU CREAM IS MENTIONED,
GIULIANI POPS UP. AMBASSADOR
BOLTON COMMUNICATED DIRECTLY
WITH GIULIANI AT KEY JUNCTIONS.
ACCORDING TO RECORDS BY THE
HOUSE GIULIANI CONNECTED WITH
AMBASSADOR BOLTON'S OFFICE THREE
TIMES BETWEEN APRIL 23rd AND MAY
10th
, 2019. A TIME. THE CORRESPONDS
WITH THE RECALL OF AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH AND ACCELERATION OF
MR. GIULIANI'S EFFORTS  ON
BEHALF OF PRESIDENT TRUMP TO
PRESSURE UKRAINE INTO OPENING
INVESTIGATIONS THAT WOULD
BENEFIT HIS REELECTION CAMPAIGN.
FOR INSTANCE, ON APRIL 23rd, THE
DAY BEFORE THE STATE DEPARTMENT
RECALLED AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH
FROM UKRAINE, MR. GIULIANI HAD
IT A MINUTE CALL FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE. 38 MINUTES LATER HE HAD A
OF CALL WITH AMBASSADOR BOLTON.
HE CALLED TO TESTIFY WE CAN ASK
A MASTER BOLTON DIRECTLY WHAT
TRANSPIRED ON THAT CALL AND
WHETHER THAT PHONE CALL
INFORMED THE ASSESSMENT THAT MR.
GIULIANI WAS A HAND GRENADE THAT
WAS GOING TO BLOW EVERYONE UP.
AND WE CAN ASK MR. BOLTON,
WHY, WHEN THERE ARE
APPROXIMATELY 1.8 MILLION
COMPANIES IN UKRAINE, SEVERAL
HUNDRED THOUSAND OF WHICH HAVE
BEEN ACCUSED OF CORRUPTION, THE
PRESIDENT WAS FOCUSED ON ONLY
ONE
. HE DIDN'T CARE ABOUT ANYTHING
ELSE, HE CARED ONLY ABOUT THE
COMPANY ON WHICH THE FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT SON HAD BEEN A BOARD
MEMBER.
DO YOU BELIEVE HE WAS CONCERNED
WITH CORRUPTION? AND ONLY KNEW
ABOUT ONE COMPANY? WHEN THERE
ARE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS THAT
WERE ACCUSED OF CORRUPTION?
ALTHOUGH AMBASSADOR BOLTON DID
NOT LISTEN IN ON THE JULY 25th
CALL BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
PRESIDENT'S ZELINSKI IN WHICH
PRESIDENT TRUMP ASKED THE
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT A FAVOR, THE
FAVOR TO INVESTIGATE ONE COMPANY
AND JOE BIDEN SON. WE HAVE
LEARNED FROM WITNESS TESTIMONY
THAT AMBASSADOR BOLTON WAS
OPPOSED TO THE CALL
IN THE FIRST PLACE WHY? BECAUSE
HE ACCURATELY PREDICTED IN THE
WORDS OF AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, "IT
SHOULD BE SOME TALK OF
INVESTIGATION OR WORST ON THE
CALL. ALSO WROTE. HE THOUGHT IT
WOULD BE A DISASTER. HOW DID
AMBASSADOR BOLTON ALSO KNOW THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WOULD BRING THIS
UP WHAT MADE HIM SO CONCERNED
THAT A CALL WOULD BE A DISASTER?
I THINK WE KNOW. ONLY AMBASSADOR
BOLTON CAN ANSWER THESE
QUESTIONS. WE ALSO KNOW, BASED
ON EXTENSIVE WEST WITNESS
TESTIMONY, THAT THROUGHOUT THIS
PERIOD, MULTIPLE PEOPLE ON THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL STAFF
REPORTED CONCERNS TO AMBASSADOR
BOLTON ABOUT TYING AMERICAN
FOREIGN-POLICY TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DOMESTIC DOMESTIC
POLITICAL.. AS DR. HILL PUT IT.
AFTER HE ABRUPTLY ENDED THE JULY
10th MEETING. THEY ABRUPTLY TOLD
THE UKRAINIANS A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING COULD BE SCHEDULED IN
EXCHANGE FOR THE INVESTIGATION.
AMBASSADOR BOLTON SPOKE TO DR.
HILL AND DIRECTED HIM TO THE
LEGAL COUNSEL, JOHN EISENBERG.
AT THE END OF AUGUST, AMBASSADOR
BOLTON ADVISED AMBASSADOR TELLER
TO SEND A CABLE TO SECRETARY
POMPEO TO RELATE CONCERNS ABOUT
THE MILITARY AID. AMBASSADOR
BOLTON ALSO ADVISED MR.
MORRISON, DR. HILL'S SUCCESSOR
AS TOP
UKRAINE OFFICIAL ON THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL, ON TWO
DIFFERENT OCCASIONS TO REPORT
WHAT HE HEARD TO THE NATIONAL
SECURITY
COUNCIL LAWYERS THAT SOUNDED SO
SUSPICIOUS. ON SEPTEMBER 1st,
AMBASSADOR BOLTON DIRECTED MR.
MORTON TO REPORT TO THIS
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
LAWYERS AND EXPLICIT PROPOSAL
FROM AMBASSADOR SONDLAND THAT
COULD HELP THEM MOVE THE AID.
THE PROSECUTOR GENERAL WOULD GO
TO THE MIKE AND AND ELSIE WAS
OPENING THE BURISMA
INVESTIGATION. ON THE SEVENTH
OF MR. MORRISON INSTRUCTED TO GO
TO THE LAWYERS ANOTHER
CONVERSATION AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
HAD. HE CONVEYED IT THEY WOULD
NOT RELEASE MILITARY AID AND
LESS PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WOULD
ANNOUNCE THE INVESTIGATIONS
DEMANDED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP. THE
ESTIMATE
INVESTIGATION OF ONE COMPANY
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT WAS SO
CONCERNED ABOUT CORRUPTION IN
UKRAINE. ONE COMPANY THAT HAD
VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN'S SON
ON THE BOARD. HE JUST HAPPENED
TO PICK THAT COMPANY FROM
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS TO BE
CONCERNED ABOUT CORRUPTION. THE
PRESIDENT ALSO OPPOSED FUNDING
FOR CORRUPTION IN THE AID TO
UKRAINE.
WHY DID AMBASSADOR BOLTON TELL
US TO REPORT THESE ISSUES TO THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
LAWYER?
BUT HE RESPONDED TO THE CONCERNS
OF DR. HILL OR LIEUTENANT
COLONEL VINELAND. OR MR.
MORRISON.
THIS IS AT THE HEART OF THE
PRESIDENT'S CONDUCT IN HIS
ATTEMPT TO BLOCK THE TESTIMONY.
WHY WOULD THE PRESIDENT OPPOSE
THE TESTIMONY FOR HIS OWN AND
POINTY. THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR FOR THE UNITED STATES.
UNLESS HE KNEW THAT THAT
TESTIMONY WOULD BE DAMNING TO
HIM.
THOSE ARE OTHER REASONS THE
PRESIDENT FEARED AMBASSADOR
BOLTON'S TESTIMONY. I LIKE TO
TURN NOW TO AMBASSADOR BOLTON'S
KNOWLEDGE AND
CONCERN ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP
LEGAL WITHHOLDING OF THE
MILITARY AID TO THE UKRAINE. WE
ALL KNOW OF COURSE UNDER THE
ANTI-IMPALEMENT ACT OF 1974,
PAST TO PREVENT PRESIDENT NIXON
FROM REFUSING TO SPEND MONEY
APPROPRIATED BY CONGRESS,
WITHHOLDING MONEY
APPROPRIATED BY CONGRESS IS
ILLEGAL. NONETHELESS, THE
PRESIDENT DID IT FOR OBVIOUS
CORRUPT MOTIVES. JULY OF LAST
YEAR AMBASSADOR BOLTON WAS WELL
AWARE THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
ILLEGALLY WITHHOLDING
SECURITY ASSISTANT TO UKRAINE.
HE AND HIS SUBORDINATES TRIED TO
CONVINCE THE PRESIDENT TO SECURE
NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST IN
RELEASE AID.
INSTEAD OF HOLDING THAT VITAL
MILITARY ASSISTANCE HOSTAGE TO
THE PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL POLITICAL AGENDA.
THROUGHOUT THE REST OF JULY,
OVER THE COURSE OF SEVERAL
AGENCY MEETINGS, THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL REPEATEDLY
DISCUSSED THE UKRAINE
ASSISTANCE. IS NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR AMBASSADOR BOLTON
SUPERVISE THAT PROCESS. THESE
MEETINGS WORK THEIR WAY UP TO
THE LEVEL OF CABINET
DEPUTIES. EVERY AGENCY INVOLVED
EXCEPT FOR THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET REPORTS TO
RELEASING THE AID. MEANWHILE
THEY SAID THE POSITION WAS BASED
ON PRESIDENT TRUMP'S EXPRESSED
ORDERS. WE KNOW THAT A NUMBER OF
INDIVIDUALS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT
LEGALITY OF THE FUNDS WHICH WE
KNOW IS ILLEGAL. WE NOW HAVE
EXPLICIT
RULINGS FROM THE OFFICE WHICH WE
DIDN'T NEED BECAUSE WE KNEW IT
THAT'S WHY THE LAW WAS PASSED IN
1974. THE ORDER BY PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS ILLEGAL AND HE WAS
OBVIOUSLY TOLD THIS AND VIOLATED
THE IMPOUND AND CONTROL ACT. WE
ALSO KNOW THE AFTER THE MEETING
ON JULY 26, TIM MORRISON TOPPED
TALKED
TO AMBASSADOR BOLTON. ACCORDING
TO MR. MORRISON, AMBASSADOR
BOLTON SAID THE ENTIRE CABINET
RELEASED THE DECREE WANTED TO
GET THE ISSUE TO PRESIDENT TRUMP
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. WHEN DID
AMBASSADOR BOLTON FIRST BECOME
AWARE THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
WITHHOLDING MILITARY AID TO THE
UKRAINE AND CONDITIONING THE ACE
RELEASE OF THE AID ON POLITICAL
INVESTIGATION? WHAT WAS HE TOLD
THE REASON? WHAT ELSE DID HE
LEARN ABOUT THE PRESENCE
ACTIONS? AGAIN, ONLY AMBASSADOR
BOLTON CAN ANSWER THESE
QUESTIONS. AND AGAIN WE MUST
PRESUME THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP IS
DESPERATE FOR US TO NOT HEAR
THOSE ANSWERS. I HOPE NOT TOO
MANY MEMBERS OF THIS BODY ARE
DESPERATE
TO MAKE SURE THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
DON'T HEAR THE SAME ANSWERS. WE
KNOW AMBASSADOR BOLTON TRIED
WITHOUT SUCCESS THROUGHOUT
AUGUST TO PERSUADE THE PRESIDENT
THAT THE A TO UKRAINE HAD TO BE
RELEASED BECAUSE THAT WAS IN
AMERICA'S BEST INTEREST AND
NECESSARY FOR NATIONAL SECURITY.
MID AUGUST, WE KNOW THAT
LIEUTENANT COLONEL VINDMAN
RECOMMENDED
IT BE LIFTED BASED ON THE
CONSENSUS VIEWS OF THE ENTIRE
CABINET. OF THE MEMO WAS GIVEN
TO AMBASSADOR BOLTON WHO
SUBSEQUENTLY HAD A DIRECT,
ONE-ON-ONE CONVERSATION WITH THE
PRESIDENT IN WHICH HE TRIED BUT
FAILED TO CONVINCE HIM TO
RELEASE THE HOLD.
>> YOU SAID AMBASSADOR BOLTON
HAD A ONE-ON-ONE MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP IN LATE AUGUST
2019. BUT THE PRESIDENT WAS NOT
YET READY TO IMPROVE THE
RELEASE? DO YOU REMEMBER THAT?
YES 266, 268. I'M ASKING YOU DID
THAT HAPPEN OR DID IT NOT ASK
EAGLE SIR I WANT TO BE CLEAR.
OKAY,
YES SIR, I SEE.
>> YOU TESTIFIED TO THAT WHAT
WAS THE OUTCOME OF THAT MEETING
BETWEEN AMBASSADOR BOLTON AND
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
>> AMBASSADOR BOLTON DID NOT YET
BELIEVE HE WAS READY TO APPROVE
THE ASSISTANCE.
>> WAS THERE ONGOING HOLD
RELEASED FROM THIS MEETING?
>> NO SIR.
>> I AUGUST 30th, OMB INFORMED
DOD THERE WAS "CLEAR DIRECTION
TO CONTINUE TO HOLD" WHAT
RATIONALE DID THEY GIVE
PRESIDENT
AND UNDER OTHER SENIOR OFFICIALS
TO REFUSE TO RELEASE THE AID?
DID THEY REFLECT THE BEST
INTERESTS OF OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY OR PRESIDENT'S PRO PER
PERSONAL POLITICAL
INTEREST. ONLY AMBASSADOR BOLTON
COULDN'T TELL US THE ANSWER. A
FAIR TRIAL OF THIS BODY WOULD
ENSURE THAT HE TESTIFY. THE
PRESIDENT DOES NOT WANT YOU TO
HEAR AMBASSADOR BOLTON'S
TESTIMONY. WHY IS THAT? FOR ALL
THE OBVIOUS REASONS I STATED. OF
THE PRESIDENT CLAIMS THAT
UKRAINE IS IN THE INTEREST OF
THE NATIONAL SECURITY. IF THAT
IS TRUE WHY WOULD HE OPPOSE
TESTIMONY FROM HIS OWN FORMER
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR. MAKE
NO MISTAKE, PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS
NO LEGAL GROUNDS TO BLOCK THE
TESTIMONY IN THIS TRIAL.
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE IS NOT US
TELL TO COVER UP HIS OWN
CONDUCT. IT IS A QUALIFIED
PRIVILEGE. TO PROTECT SENIOR
FUNCTIONS. EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE
IS A SHIELD NOT A SWORD. IT
CANNOT BLOCK UP
WITNESS WILLING TO TESTIFY AS
AMBASSADOR BOLTON SAID HE IS. AS
WE KNOW FROM THE NIXON CASE IN
WATERGATE, THE PRIVILEGE DOES
NOT HAVE THIS PACIFIC EVIDENCE
OF WRONGDOING. NIXON'S ATTEMPT
TO USE EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE TO
CONCEAL INCRIMINATING
TAPE-RECORDING. ALL OF THIS
EFFORT BY PRESIDENT TRUMP MUST
ALSO FAIL. THE PRESIDENT ALLIES
RELIES ON THE THEORY OF ABSOLUTE
IMMUNITY. HE CAN ORDER ANYBODY
IN THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH TO
NOT TESTIFY IN THE HOUSE OR THE
SENATE. OBVIOUSLY IT'S
RIDICULOUS AND FLATLY REJECTED
BY EVERY FEDERAL COURT TO
CONSIDER THE IDEA. EMBARRASSING
PRESIDENT'S COUNSEL WOULD TALK
ABOUT THIS TODAY. EVEN IF
PRESIDENT TRUMP ASSERTS THAT
AMBASSADOR BOLTON IS IMMUNE TO
COMPELLED TESTIMONY, THE
PRESIDENT HAS NO AUTHORITY TO
BLOCK. AS ONE
EXPLAINED PRESIDENTS ARE NOT
KINGS AND THEY DO NOT HAVE
SUBJECTS WHOSE DESTINY THEY ARE
ENTITLED TO CONTROL. THIS BODY
SHOULD NOT ACT AS IF PRESIDENT
IS KING. WE WILL SEE WITH THE
NEXT VOTE ON THIS QUESTION.
WHETHER THE MEMBERS OF THIS BODY
WANT TO PROTECT THE PRESIDENT
AGAINST ALL INVESTIGATION
AGAINST ALL SUSPICION AGAINST
ANY CRIMES OR NOT.
THE FRAMERS OF OUR CONSTITUTION
WERE MOST CONCERNED ABOUT ABUSE
OF POWER WHEN IT AFFECTS
NATIONAL SECURITY.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS BEEN
IMPEACHED FOR PLACING HIS
POLITICAL INTEREST AHEAD OF OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY. IS IMPERATIVE
WE HEAR FROM THE NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR WHO WITNESSED
THE SCHEME FROM START TO FINISH.
TO BE CLEAR THE RECORD AS IT
STANDS FULLY SUPPORTS BOTH
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT. IT IS
BEYOND ARGUMENT THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP MOUNTED A SUSTAINED
PRESSURE CAMPAIGN TO BENEFIT HIM
POLITICALLY AND THEN TRIED TO
COVER IT UP. THE PRESIDENT DOES
NOT SERIOUSLY DENY ANY OF THESE
FACTS.
THE ONLY QUESTION LEFT IS THIS,
WHY IS THE PRESIDENT SO INTENT
ON CONCEALING THE EVIDENCE AND
BLOCKING ALL DOCUMENTS AND
TESTIMONY HERE TODAY? ONLY
GUILTY PEOPLE TRY TO HIDE
THE EVIDENCE. OF COURSE, ALL OF
THIS IS RELEVANT. ONLY THIS YEAR
TODAY IS A FAIR TRIAL. ONLY THE
SENATE SITTING AS AN IMPARTIAL
JURY, DO NOT WORK WITH THE
ACCUSED TO CONCEAL THE EVIDENCE
FROM THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. WE
CANNOT BE SURPRISED IF THE
PRESENT OBJECTS TO CALLING
WITNESSES TO
PROVE HIS GUILT THAT IS WHO HE
IS. HE DOES NOT WANT YOU TO SEE
THE EVIDENCE HOW HE BETRAYED IS
OFFICE AND ASK A FOREIGN
GOVERNMENT TO INTERVENE IN OUR
ELECTION. WE SHOULD BE SURPRISED
THAT HERE IN THE UNITED STATES
SENATE, THE LATEST DELIBERATIVE
BODY IN THE WORLD, WE ARE
EXPECTED TO PUT OUR OATH OF
OFFICE AHEAD OF THE POLITICAL
EXPEDIENTS WHERE WE ARE EXPECTED
TO BE HONEST WHERE WE ARE
EXPECTED TO PROTECT THE INTEREST
OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WE SHOULD BE SURPRISED,
SHOCKED THAT ANY SENATOR WOULD
VOTE TO BLOCK THIS WITNESS OR
ANY RELEVANT WITNESS IT WOULD
SHED ADDITIONAL LIGHT ON THE
PRESIDENT'S OBVIOUS MISCONDUCT.
THE PRESIDENT IS ON TRIAL IN THE
SENATE BUT THE SENATE IS ON
TRIAL IN THE EYES OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. WILL YOU VOTE
TO ALLOW THE EVIDENCE OR BETRAY
YOUR PLEDGE TO BE IMPARTIAL
JURY. WILL YOU BRING AMBASSADOR
BOLTON HERE. WOULD YOU PERMIT
THE ENTIRE CONDUCT OR WOULD YOU
CHOOSE TO BE COMPLICIT
IN THE PRESIDENT'S COVER-UP? SO
FAR, I'M SAD TO SAY I SEE A LOT
OF SENATORS VOTING FOR A
COVER-UP, VOTING TO DENY
WITNESSES, ABSOLUTELY
INDEFENSIBLE. AWFULLY USUALLY A
TREACHEROUS VOTE. A VOTE AGAINST
AN HONEST CONSIDERATION OF THE
EVIDENCE
AGAINST THE PRESIDENT. A VOTE
AGAINST AN HONEST TRIAL. A VOTE
AGAINST THE UNITED STATES. A
REAL TRIAL WE KNOW HAS
WITNESSES. WE URGE YOU TO DO
YOUR DUTY, ADMIT A FAIR TRIAL.
CALL THE WITNESSES. THEY MUST BE
PERMITTED
, THAT'S ELEMENTARY AND AMERICAN
JUSTICE. EITHER YOU WANT THE
TRUTH, OR YOU AND YOU MUST
PERMIT THE WITNESSES OR YOU WANT
A SHAMEFUL COVER-UP. HISTORY
WILL JUDGE. AND SO WILL BE
ELECTRIC.
MR. PALLONE.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHIEF JUSTICE.
MEMBERS OF THE SENATE. WE CAME
HERE TODAY. TO ADDRESS THE FALSE
CASE BROUGHT TO YOU. BY THE
HOUSE MANAGERS.
WE HAVE BEEN RESPECTFUL
WE'VE MADE OUR ARGUMENTS TO YOU
AND YOU DON'T DESERVE AND WE
DON'T DESERVE WHAT JUST
HAPPENED. MR. NADLER
CAME UP HERE AND MADE FALSE
ALLEGATIONS AGAINST OUR TEAM, HE
MADE FALSE ALLEGATIONS AGAINST
ALL OF YOU, HE ACCUSED YOU OF A
COVER-UP. HE'S BEEN MAKING FALSE
ALLEGATIONS AGAINST A PRESIDENT.
THE ONLY ONE WHO SHOULD BE
EMBARRASSED, MR. NADLER, IS YOU
FOR THE WAY YOU HAVE ADDRESSED
THIS BODY. THIS IS UNITED STATES
SENATE. YOU ARE NOT IN CHARGE
HERE. NOW LET ME ADDRESS
THE ISSUE OF MR. BOLTON, I'VE
ADDRESSED IT BEFORE. THEY DON'T
TELL YOU THAT THEY DID NOT
BOTHER TO CALL MR. BOLTON
THEMSELVES. THEY DIDN'T SEE OR
SUBPOENA HIM. MR. COOPER WROTE
THEM A LETTER HE SAID VERY
CLEARLY OF THE HOUSE CHOOSES NOT
TO PURSUE THE THROUGH SUBPOENA
COPPERMINE AND AMBASSADOR
BOLTON, LET THE RECORD BE CLEAR,
THAT IS A HOUSES DECISION. AND
THEY DID NOT PURSUE AMBASSADOR
BOLTON AND THEY WITHDREW THIS UP
SUBPOENA TO MR. KUPPER MEN.
AND FOR THEM TO COME HERE NOW
AND DEMAND THAT BEFORE WE EVEN
START THE ARGUMENT,
THEY ASK YOU
OF SOMETHING THEY REFUSED TO DO
FOR THEMSELVES AND ASK YOU FOR A
COVER-UP
THAT THEY DON'T DO IT. IT'S
RIDICULOUS TALK ABOUT
OUT-OF-CONTROL GOVERNMENT. LET
ME READ YOU A QUOTE. FROM MR.
NADLER. NOT SO LONG AGO. THE
EFFECT OF IMPEACHMENT IS TO
OVERTURN THE POPULAR WILL OF THE
VOTERS. THERE MUST NEVER BE A
NARROWLY VOTED IMPEACHMENT OR AN
IMPEACHMENT SUPPORTED BY ONE OF
OUR POLITICAL PARTIES AND
IMPOSED BY THE OTHER. SUCH AN
IMPEACHMENT WOULD PRODUCE
DIVISIVENESS
AND BITTERNESS IN OUR POLITICS
FOR YEARS TO COME. AND WILL CALL
INTO QUESTION. THE VERY
LEGITIMACY OF OUR POLITICAL
INSTITUTION. YOU'VE JUST SEEN IT
FOR YOURSELF. WHAT HAPPENED MR.
NADLER? WHAT HAPPENED? THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE PAY THEIR
SALARY.
AND THEY ARE HERE TO TAKE AWAY
THEIR VOTE. THEY ARE HERE TO
TAKE AWAY THEIR VOICE. THEY HAVE
COME HERE AND THEY HAVE ATTACKED
EVERY INSTITUTION OF OUR
GOVERNMENT. THEY HAVE ATTACKED
THE PRESIDENT THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH, THEY HAVE ATTACKED THE
JUDICIAL BRANCH. THEY SAY THEY
DON'T HAVE TIME FOR COURT. THEY
HAVE ATTACKED THE UNITED STATE
SENATE REPEATEDLY.
IT'S ABOUT TIME WE BRING THIS
POWER TRIP IN FOR A LANDING.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS A MAN OF HIS
WORD. HE MADE PROMISES TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND HE DELIVERED
OVER AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
AND THEY COME HERE AND SAY WITH
NO EVIDENCE SPENDING THE DAY
COMPLAINING THAT THEY CAN'T MAKE
THEIR CASE. ATTACKING A
RESOLUTION
THAT HAD 100% SUPPORT IN THIS
BODY AND SOME OF THE PEOPLE HERE
SUPPORTED IT AT THE TIME. IT'S A
FARCE. AND IT SHOULD END. MR.
NADLER,
YOU OWE AN APOLOGY TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AND HIS FAMILY. YOU OWE AN
APOLOGY TO THE SENATE BUT MOST
OF ALL, YOU OWE AN APOLOGY TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. I YIELD THE
REMAINDER OF MY TIME. TO MR. --.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
>> MEMBERS OF THE SENATE.
CHAIRMAN NADLER TALKED ABOUT
TREACHEROUS ABOUT 12 A.M. THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE OF THIS BODY ON THE
FLOOR OF THE SENATE SAID
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE AND OTHER
NONSENSE. THINK ABOUT THAT FOR A
MOMENT. EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE AND
OTHER NONSENSE. MR. NADLER IT IS
NOT NONSENSE.
THESE ARE PRIVILEGES RECOGNIZED
BY THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES. AND TO SHRED THE
CONSTITUTION ON THE FLOOR OF THE
SENATE, TO SERVE WHAT PURPOSE?
THE SENATE IS NOT ON TRIAL.
THE CONSTITUTION DOES NOT ALLOW
IT.
LOOK WHAT WE'VE DEALT WITH FOR
THE LAST, NOW, 13 HOURS.
AND WE ARE HOPEFULLY CLOSING THE
PROCEEDINGS BUT NOT ON A VERY
HIGH NOTE. ONLY GUILTY PEOPLE
TRY TO HIDE EVIDENCE SO I GUESS
WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA INSTRUCTED
HIS ATTORNEY GENERAL TO NOT GIVE
INFORMATION, HE WAS GUILTY OF A
CRIME. THAT'S THE WAY IT WORKS
MR. NADLER? IS THAT THE WAY YOU
VIEW THE UNITED STATES
CONSTITUTION? IS THAT'S NOT THE
WAY IT WAS WRITTEN. THAT'S NOT
THE WAY IT WAS INTERPRETED.
THAT'S NOT THE WAY THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE SHOULD HAVE TO LIVE. I'LL
TELL YOU WHAT'S TREACHEROUS.
COME TO THE FLOOR OF THE SENATE
AND SAY EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE AND
OTHER NONSENSE. YIELD THE REST.
>> MANAGERS HAVE 27 MINUTES
REMAINING.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE. PRESIDENTS COUNCIL
NO STANDING TO TALK ABOUT LINE.
HE TOLD THE BODY TOLD AMERICAN
PEOPLE REPEATEDLY THAT THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES REFUSED TO
ALLOW THE PRESIDENT DUE PROCESS.
I TOLD YOU
PUBLIC DOCUMENT. DUE PROCESS.
OFFERING WITNESSES, OFFERING
CROSS EXAMINATION. A FEW DAYS
LATER WE RECEIVE A LETTER ON
WHITE HOUSE STATIONERY THAT SAID
NO, WE HAVE NO INTEREST IN
APPEARING. ON ONE HAND, THEY ARE
LYING, THE HOUSE IS CONDEMNED
BY THE PRESIDENT FOR NOT GIVING
HIM DUE PROCESS AFTER THEY
REJECTED THE OFFER OF DUE
PROCESS. THAT LETTER REJECTING
IT WAS DECEMBER 1st.
THE PRESIDENT'S COUNSEL SAID THE
HOUSE SHOULD HAVE
ISSUED SUBPOENAS, WE DID ISSUE
SUBPOENAS. THE PRESIDENT YOU MAY
RECALL, SHOULD RECALL, HE WOULD
OPPOSE ALL SUBPOENAS AND HE DID.
SO MANY OF THOSE SUBPOENAS ARE
STILL BEING FOUGHT IN COURT.
SUBPOENAS ISSUED LAST APRIL. SO
THAT'S ALSO UNTRUE. AND IT'S A
HECK OF A NERVE TO CRITICIZE THE
HOUSE
FOR NOT ISSUING SUPREME IT'S
WHEN THE PRESIDENT SAID HE WOULD
OPPOSE ALL
SUBPOENAS AND WE ISSUED
SUBPOENAS AND HE POSES ALL OF
THEM AND IT IS TIED UP IN COURT.
THE PRESIDENT CLAIMS, AND MOST
MEMBERS OF THE BODY NO BETTER,
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE LIMITED
PRIVILEGE.
NOT AS A SHIELD AS WRONG DOING
AS THE SUPREME COURT
THE PRESENT CLAIMS ABSOLUTELY
IMMUNITY.
PRESIDENT WROTE THOSE LETTERS
SAYING NOBODY HE WANTS TO
TESTIFY AND THEY HAVE THE NERVE
AND THAT WAS A VIOLATION OF THE
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS OF THE
HOUSE
AND THE SENATE. AMERICANS PEOPLE
REPRESENTATIVE THROUGH THEM AND
ASSERTION OF KINGLY PREROGATIVE
ONLY THE PRESIDENT, ONLY THE
PRESIDENT HAS RIGHTS
AND PEOPLE REPRESENTATIVE IN
CONGRESS CANNOT GET INFORMATION
FROM THE EXECUTIVE RANCH AT ALL?
THIS BODY AS COMMITTEES, IT'S A
200 YEAR RECORD OF ISSUING
SUBPOENAS. OF HAVING THE
ADMINISTRATION OF THE DAY
TESTIFY. OF SOMETIMES HAVING
SUBPOENAS. BUT NO PRESIDENT HAS
EVER CLAIMED THE RIGHT TO
STONEWALL CONGRESS ON
EVERYTHING... CONGRESS SAYS
NO RIGHT TO GET INFORMATION TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, NO RIGHT TO
GET INFORMATION IMPACT ARTICLE 2
OF THE IMPEACHMENT THAT WE HAVE
VOTED. IT IS BEYOND BELIEF THAT
THE PRESIDENT CLAIMS
AND ALL GOOGLE POWERS, I CAN DO
WHATEVER I WANT UNDER ARTICLE 2
AND THEN ASK ON THAT. DEFIES
EVERYTHING. DEFIES THE LAW TO
WITHHOLD AID FROM UKRAINE.
DEFIES THE LAW IN DOZENS OF
DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS AND LIES
ABOUT HER ALL THE TIME. AND SENT
MR. PALLONE HERE TO LIE ABOUT
IT. THESE FACTS ARE UNDENIABLE.
UNDENIABLE. I RESERVE
ONCE AGAIN IT WAS COMPLAINED
THAT WE DID NOT REQUEST JOHN
BOLTON TO TESTIFY. WE DID
REQUEST HIS TESTIMONY AND HE WAS
A NO-SHOW. THE ANSWER WAS YOU
GIVE US A SUBPOENA AND WE WILL
SUE YOU AND INDEED THAT'S WHAT
MR. BONES ATTORNEY DID WITH DR.
KUPPER MEN. THERE WAS NO
WILLINGNESS FOR MR. BOLTON TO
TESTIFY IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE HE
SAID HE WOULD SUE US. WAS A
PROBLEM WITH SUING US? THEY'RE
JUST DEPARTMENT ARGUING THAT
VERY CASE INVOLVING DR. KUPPER
MEN THEY CAN'T SUE, DR. KUPPER
MEN CANNOT SUE THE
ADMINISTRATION AND THE CONGRESS.
CONGRESS IS TAKEN THE SAME
POSITION ADMINISTRATION HAS
TAKEN APPARENTLY NOT THE SAME
THAT THE LAWYERS ARE TAKING. HIS
THE BIGGEST PROBLEM. WE
SUBPOENAED DON McGANN IN APRIL
OF 2019. IS JANUARY OF 2020. WE
STILL DON'T HAVE A DECISION FROM
A FINAL DECISION FROM THE COURT
REQUIRING HIM TO TESTIFY. IN A
COUPLE MONTHS IT WILL BE ONE
YEAR SINCE WE ISSUED THAT
SUBPOENA. THE PRESIDENT WOULD
LIKE NOTHING MORE THAN FOR US TO
HAVE TO GO THROUGH ONE-YEAR OR
TWO-YEAR OR THREE YEARS OF
LITIGATION TO GET A WITNESS TO
COME BEFORE THE HOUSE. THE
PROBLEM IS, THE PRESIDENT IS
TRYING TO CHEAT IN THIS
ELECTION. WE DON'T HAVE THE
LUXURY OF WAITING ONE-YEAR OR
TWO-YEAR OR THREE YEARS WHEN THE
VERY OBJECT OF THIS SCHEME WAS
TO CHEAT IN THE NEXT ELECTION,
IT'S NOT LIKE THAT THREAT HAS
GONE AWAY. JUST LAST MONTH THE
PRESIDENT LAWYER IN UKRAINE
STILL TRYING TO
SMEAR HIS OPPONENT STILL TRYING
TO GET UKRAINE TO INTERFERE IN
THE ELECTION. EVEN WHILE THE
IMPEACHMENT INVESTIGATION WAS
GOING ON HE WAS ASKED WHAT DID
YOU WANT WITH THAT CALL, WELL
FOR BEING HONEST ABOUT IT,
ZELINSKI SHOULD DO THAT
INVESTIGATION INTO THE BIDENS.
HE HAS NOT STOPPED ASKING THEM
TO INTERFERE.
YOU THINK THE UKRAINIANS HAVE
ANY DOUBT ABOUT WHAT HE WANTS?
ONE OF THE WITNESSES, DAVID
HOLMES TESTIFIED ABOUT THE
PRESSURE UKRAINE
FEELS. HE MADE A VERY IMPORTANT
POINT. IT IS NOT OVER. IT'S NOT
LIKE THEY DON'T WANT ANYTHING
ELSE FROM THE UNITED STATES.
THIS PRESSURE FOR UKRAINE GOES
ON TO THIS DAY. THE PRESIDENT'S
LAWYER CONTINUES THIS SCHEME AS
WE SPEAK INVITING OTHER NATIONS
TO ALSO INVOLVE THEMSELVES IN
OUR ELECTION. TO CHINA HE WANTS
NOW TO INVESTIGATE THE BIDENS.
THIS IS NO INTANGIBLE THREAT TO
OUR
ELECTIONS. WITHIN THE LAST
COUPLE WEEKS IS BEEN REPORTED
THAT THE RUSSIANS HAVE TRIED TO
HACK BURISMA WHY DO YOU THINK
THEY ARE HACKING BURISMA?
BECAUSE CHAIRMAN NADLER SAYS
EVERYBODY SEEMS TO BE INTERESTED
IN THIS ONE COMPANY OUT OF
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
COMPANIES. THE SAME COMPANY THE
PRESIDENT HAS BEEN TRYING TO
SMEAR JOE BIDEN HAPPENS TO BE
THE COMPANY RUSSIANS ARE HACKING
. WHY WOULD THE RUSSIAN DO THAT?
IF YOU LOOK BACK AT THE LAST
ELECTION, THE RUSSIANS HACKED
THE DNC. AND THEY STARTED TO
LEAK CAMPAIGN DOCUMENTS IN A
DRIP, DRIP, DRIP. THE PRESIDENT
WAS ONLY TOO HAPPY OVER 100
TIMES THE LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS
DESPITE THOSE RUSSIAN HACK
DOCUMENTS AND NOW THE RUSSIANS
ARE ADDED AGAIN. THIS IS NO
LOOSER A THREAT TO INDEPENDENT
ELECTIONS.
THE RUSSIANS AS WE SPEAK AND
WHAT IS HE SAYING BACK OFF OR
RUSH I'M NOT INTERESTED IN YOUR
HELP I DON'T WANT FOREIGN
INTERFERENCE HE'S SAYING NO COME
ON IN CHINA. AND HE'S GOT HIS
GUY IN UKRAINE CONTINUING THE
SCHEME. WE CAN'T WAIT A YEAR OR
TWO-YEAR OR THREE YEARS LIKE WE
HAD TO WAIT FOR DON McGANN TO
GET JOHN BOLTON INTO TESTIFY TO
LET YOU KNOW THIS THREAT IS
ONGOING. COUNSEL ALSO SAYS THIS
IS JUST LIKE OBAMA. THIS IS JUST
LIKE OBAMA. SIDING I SUPPOSE THE
FAST AND FURIOUS CASE. THEY
DON'T MENTION THAT IN THAT
INVESTIGATION THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TURNED OVER TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF DOCUMENTS. DON'T
WANT YOU TO KNOW ABOUT THAT.
THEY SAID IT'S JUST LIKE OBAMA.
WHEN YOU FIND VIDEO OF BARACK
OBAMA UNDER ARTICLE TO YOU HE
CAN DO ANYTHING THEN YOU COME
COMPARE BARACK OBAMA TO DONALD
TRUMP. HE WHEN YOU FIND VIDEO OF
BARACK OBAMA SAYING I WILL FIGHT
ALL SUBPOENA ON SUBPOENAS YOU
CAN COMPARE BARACK OBAMA TO
DONALD TRUMP. AND FINALLY MR.
CIPOLLONE SAYS  PRESIDENT TRUMP
IS A MAN OF HIS WORD. WELL IT'S
TOO LATE IN THE EVENING FOR ME
TO GO INTO THAT ONE. EXCEPT TO
SAY THIS. PRESIDENT TRUMP GAVE
HIS WORD HE WOULD DRAIN THE
SWAMP. HE SAID HE WOULD DRAIN
THE SWAMP. AND WHAT HAVE WE
SEEN? WE'VE SEEN HIS PERSONAL
LAWYER GO TO JAIL. IS CAMPAIGN
CHAIRMAN GO TO JAIL. IS DEPUTY
CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN CONVICTED OF A
DIFFERENT CRIME. HIS ASSOCIATES
ASSOCIATE UNDER INDICTMENT. THE
LIST GOES ON AND ON.
THAT'S HOW YOU DRAIN THE SWAMP
YOU HAVE ALL YOUR PEOPLE GO TO
JAIL. I DON'T THINK THAT'S
REALLY WHAT WAS MEANT I THAT
EXPRESSION BUT FOR THE PURPOSES
OF WHY WE ARE HERE TODAY, HOW
DOES SOMEONE WHO PROMISES TO
DRAIN THE SWAMP COURSE AND ALLY
OF OURS INTO DOING A POLITICAL
INVESTIGATION. THAT IS THE
SWAMP. THAT'S NOT DRAINING THE
SWAMP. THAT'S EXPORTING THE
SWAMP. I YIELD BACK.
>>
I THINK IT IS APPROPRIATE AT
THIS POINT FOR ME TO ADMONISH
BOTH THE HOUSE MANAGERS AND THE
PRESIDENT'S COUNSEL IN EQUAL
TERMS, THE REMORA THAT THEY ARE
ADDRESSING THE WORLD'S GREATEST
DELIBERATIVE BODY
. ONE REASON IT HAS EARNED THE
TITLE IS BECAUSE ITS MEMBERS
AVOID SPEAKING IN A MANNER AND
USING LANGUAGE THAT IS NOT
CONDUCIVE TO CIVIL DISCOURSE. IN
THE 1905 SWING TRIAL THE SENATOR
OBJECTED WHEN ONE OF THE
MANAGERS USED THE WORD PETTY
FOGGY. THE PROVIDING
OFFICER SAID THE WORD OUGHT NOT
TO OF BEEN USE. I DON'T THINK WE
NEED TO ASPIRE TO THAT HIGH OF
STANDARD BUT I THINK THOSE
ADDRESSING THE SENATE SHOULD
REMEMBER WHERE THEY ARE.
RECOGNIZE.
THANK YOU MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, IT
WILL SURPRISE NO ONE THAT I MOVE
TO TABLE THE AMENDMENT. I ASKED
FOR YAYS AND NAYS. IS THERE A
SUFFICIENT SECOND? THIS CLERK
WILL CALL THE ROLE. ALEXANDER,
BALDWIN, BARRASSO, BENNETT,
BLACKBURN, BLUMENTHAL,
BLUNT, BOOKER, BOZEMAN, RON,
BROWN,
BURR, CANTWELL, CAPPUCCINO,
GARDEN.
MR. CARPER, CASEY, CASSIDY,
COLLINS, KOONS,
CORNYN, CORTEZ, MASTRO. COTTON.
KRAMER,
CRAPO, CRUZ, DAINES, DUCKWORTH,
DURBIN, NZ, ARTS, FEINSTEIN,
FISHER, GARDNER, JOEL BROWN,
GRAHAM,
GRASSLEY, HARRIS, HASSAN, HOLLY,
HEINRICH, ROANOKE, HOBAN,
HYDE-SMITH,
ANE HA, JOHNSON, JONES, KANE,
KENNEDY, KING, CLOVER CHARTER,
LANGFORD,
LEAHY, LEE, LEFFLER, MANSION,
MARKEY, McCONNELL, MICK SALLY,
MICK MENDEZ,
MERKLEY, MORAN, MURKOWSKI,
MURPHY, MURRAY,
FALL, PURDUE, PETERS, PORTMAN,
REED, RISCH, ROBERTS, ROMNEY,
ROSEN, ROUNDS, RUBIO, SANDERS,
STAFF, SHOT, SCHUMER, SCOTT OF
FLORIDA,
SCOTT OF SOUTH CAROLINA, SHAKING
, SHELBY,
CINEMA, SMITH,
STABENOW, SOLON,
FESTER, SOON. TILLIS. TOOMEY,
UDO,
VAN HOLLEN, WARNER, WARREN,
WHITE HOUSE,
WAKE HER, WIDE, MR. YOUNG.
THE CHAMBER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
CHANGE HIS OR HER VOTE? IF NOT
THE YAYS ARE 53 AND THE NAZAR
47, THE AMENDMENT IS TABLED. THE
DEMOCRATIC LEADER IS RECOGNIZE.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHIEF JUSTICE.
I SEND AN AMENDMENT TO THE DESK
TO PROVIDE FOR A VOTE FOR THE
SENATE ON ANY MOTION TO SUBPOENA
WITNESSES OR DOCUMENTS AFTER THE
QUESTION.. I WAVE THE READING.
>> OBJECTION TO THE WAIVING OF
THE READING?
>> I WITHDRAW MY REQUEST FOR A
WAIVER.
>> DOES ANY SENATOR HAVE ANY
OBJECTION TO THE WAIVING OF THE
READING? THERE IS AN OBJECTION
YES.
THE COURT WOULD READ THE
AMENDMENT.
>> SENATOR FROM NEW YORK MR.
SCHUMER PROPOSES AN AMENDMENT
NUMBER 1292. ON PAGE 3 LINE 8
STRIKE FOUR HOURS AND INSERT TWO
HOURS ON PAGE 3 LINE 10 STRIKE
THE QUESTION OF AND ALL THAT
FOLLOWS TWO RULES ONLINE 12. ON
PAGE 3 LINE 14 INSERT ANY SUCH
MOTIONS AFTER DECIDE. ON PAGE 3
LINE 15 STRIKE WEATHER AND ALL
THAT FOLLOWS THROUGH DOCUMENTS
ON LINE 17. ON PAGE 3 LINE 18
STRIKE THAT QUESTION AND INSERT
ANY SUCH MOTION. ON PAGE 3 LINE
20 THROUGH 24 STRIKE IN THE
SENATE AND
SHALL DECIDE AFTER DEPOSITION
WHICH WITNESSES SHALL TESTIFY
AND INSERT AND THEN SHALL
TESTIFY IN THE SENATE.
>> THE AMENDMENT IS ARGUABLE BY
THE PARTIES FOR TWO HOURS
EQUALLY DIVIDED. MR. SCHIFF ARE
YOU AN OPPONENT OR  PROPONENT.
MR. VINDMAN  PROPONENT OR
OPPONENT. MR.
SCHIFF YOU MAY PROCEED AND
RESERVE TIME FOR REBUTTAL .
>> THIS AMENDMENT MAKES TWO
IMPORTANT CHANGES TO THE
McCONNELL RESOLUTION. THE FIRST
IS THE McCONNELL RESOLUTION DOES
NOT ACTUALLY PROVIDE
FOR AN IMMEDIATE VOTE EVEN LATER
ON THE WITNESSES THAT WE HAVE
REQUESTED. THE McCONNELL
RESOLUTION SAYS AT SOME POINT
AFTER THE
TRIAL IS OVER AFTER YOU'VE HAD
THE ARGUMENTS OF BOTH SIDES YOU
HAVE THE 16 HOURS OF QUESTIONING
THEN THERE WILL BE A DEBATE AS
TO WHETHER TO HAVE THE VOTE ON
THE WITNESSES. THERE IS NO EVEN
GUARANTEED YOU WILL GET A CHANCE
TO VOTE ON SPECIFIC WITNESSES.
ALL OF THE RESOLUTION PROVIDES
IS YOU WILL GET AN OPPORTUNITY
TO VOTE TO HAVE A DEBATE ON
WHETHER TO OPENLY HAVE A VOTE ON
THE WITNESS. THIS WOULD STRIP
THAT MIDDLE LAYER. THIS WOULD
STRIP ON WHETHER TO HAVE A
DEBATE ON IT PARTICULAR WITNESS.
IF MIKE COLLEAGUES FOR THE
PRESIDENT'S TEAM,
ARE MAKING THE POINT WELL YOU
ARE GOING TO GET THAT
OPPORTUNITY, LATER. THE REALITY
UNDER THE McCONNELL
RESOLUTION WE MAY NOT GET TO
HAVE A DEBATE ABOUT THE
PARTICULAR WITNESSES. YOU'VE
HEARD THE DISCUSSION OF
FOUR WITNESSES TONIGHT. THEY MAY
BE OTHERS THAT COME TO THE
ATTENTION OF THIS BODY IF WE ARE
ABLE TO GET DOCUMENTS THAT WE
SHOULD ALSO CALL. BUT WILL YOU
EVER GET TO HEAR A DEBATE
ABOUT WHY A PARTICULAR WITNESSES
NECESSARY? YOU MAY ONLY GET A
DEBATE OVER THE DEBATE. SO THIS
AMENDMENT WOULD REMOVE THAT
DEBATE OVER DEBATE REGARDING
PARTICULAR WITNESS. THE OTHER
THING THIS RESOLUTION WOULD
PROVIDE IS THAT YOU SHOULD HEAR
FROM THESE WITNESSES DIRECTLY.
McCONNELL RESOLUTION SAID THEY
WILL BE DEPOSED. AND THAT'S IT
. IT DOESN'T SAY YOU WILL EVER
ACTUALLY GOING TO HEAR THESE
WITNESSES FOR YOURSELF. WHICH
MEANS THAT U.S. THE TRIERS OF
FACT MAY NOT GET TO SEE AND
WITNESS THE CREDIBILITY OF THESE
WITNESSES. YOU MAY ONLY GET TO
SEE A DEPOSITION OR A DEPOSITION
TRANSCRIPT
OR A VIDEO OF THE TRANSCRIPT, I
DON'T KNOW. BUT IF THERE IS ANY
CONTEST OF THE FACTS, WOULDN'T
YOU LIKE TO HEAR FROM THE
WITNESSES THEMSELVES? NOW THE
REASON WHY IT WAS DONE THIS WAY
IN THE CLINTON CASE WIDE THERE
WERE
DEPOSITIONS AND AGAIN, IN THE
CLINTON CASE ALL THESE PEOPLE
HAD BEEN INTERVIEWED AND DEPOSED
OR TESTIFIED BEFORE,
BUT THE REASON WHY IT WAS DONE
THAT WAY AND CLINTON WAS BECAUSE
OF THE SALACIOUS NATURE OF THE
TESTIMONY. NOBODY WANTED
WITNESSES
ON THE SENATE FLOOR TALKING
ABOUT SEX. AS I SAID BEFORE THAT
WILL NOT BE THE ISSUE HERE. TO
WHATEVER DEGREE THERE WAS LITTLE
RELUCTANCE IN THE CLINTON CASE
TO HAVE LIVE TESTIMONY BECAUSE
OF ITS SALACIOUS CHARACTER, THAT
IS NOT IN ISSUE HERE. THAT IS
NOT A REASON TO HEAR THE
WITNESSES FOR YOURSELF. THIS
RESOLUTION MAKES TWO IMPORTANT
CHANGES AND I WOULD URGE YOUR
SUPPORT OF IT.
>> MR. CIPOLLONE.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE, GOOD MORNING.
I WILL BE VERY BRIEF ON THIS. WE
STRONGLY OPPOSE THE AMENDMENT
. WE SUPPORT THE RESOLUTION AS
WRITTEN WE BELIEVE THE
RESOLUTION AS TO THE TWO AREAS
THAT MANAGER
SCHIFF DISCUSSED, THE RESOLUTION
APPROPRIATELY CONSIDERS THE
QUESTIONS AND STRIKES  THE
APPROPRIATE BALANCE IN THE
SENATE'S DISCRETION AS THE SOLE
TRIER OF IMPEACHMENTS.
THE RULES IN PLACE HERE AND THE
RESOLUTION ARE SIMILAR TO THE
CLINTON PROCEEDING IN THAT
REGARD IN THE SENSE THAT THIS
BODY HAS THE DISCRETION AS TO
WHETHER TO HEAR THE WITNESS LIVE
IF THERE ARE WITNESSES AT SOME
POINT OR NOT. BUT MORE
FUNDAMENTALLY, THE PRELIMINARY
QUESTION HAS TO BE OVERCOME
WHICH IS THEY WILL HAVE TWO
HOURS, FOUR HOURS TOTAL, FOUR
HOURS
TWO HOURS FOR THEM. TO TRY TO
CONVINCE YOU AFTER THE PARTIES
OF MADE THEIR
PRESENTATION, WHICH THEY WILL
HAVE 24 HOURS TO DO AS TO
WHETHER OR NOT THE PRELIMINARY
QUESTION WHETHER IT SHALL BE AN
ORDER TO CONSIDER AND ABATE ANY
MOTION TO SUBPOENA WITNESSES OR
DOCUMENTS. THAT WAS PRECISELY
THE CLINTON RULES, STRONGER THAN
THE CLINTON RULES, I'M SORRY.
THOSE RULES AS I'VE INDICATED
BEFORE, PAST 100 TO ZERO. WE
THINK THE RESOLUTION STRIKES THE
APPROPRIATE BALANCE AND WE URGE
THAT THE AMENDMENT BE REJECTED.
I YIELD MY TIME.
>> THANK YOU COUNSEL. MR. SCHIFF
YOU HAVE 57 MINUTES.  ECO-DON'T
WORRY, I WON'T USE IT. I WOULD
SAY ONLY IF THERE WAS ANY THE
DEER LEFT, ANY VIDEO LEFT TO
CAMOUFLAGE WHERE THE PRESIDENT'S
COUNSEL IS REALLY COMING FROM,
THE VENEER
IS COMPLETELY GONE NOW. AFTER
SAYING WE'RE GONNA HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A VOTE ON
THESE WITNESSES LATER, NOW THEY
ARE SAYING NO, WE ARE JUST GOING
TO HAVE A VOTE ON WHETHER TO
DEBATE HAVING A VOTE ON THE
WITNESSES.
>> THE CAMOUFLAGE WAS PRETTY IN
TO BEGIN WITH BUT IT'S
COMPLETELY GONE NOW. WHAT THEY
REALLY WANT THEY WANT TO GET TO
THAT DEBATE THAT GENERIC DEBATE
ON WHETHER TO HAVE A DEBATE ON
THE WITNESSES AND HAVE YOU VOTE
IT DOWN SO YOU NEVER ACTUALLY
HAVE A VOTE TO REFUSE THESE
WITNESSES ALTHOUGH YOU HAD TO DO
THAT TONIGHT. I DON'T SEE WHAT
THAT PURPOSE SERVES EXCEPT I
SUPPOSED TO PUT ONE MORE LAYER
IN THE WAY OF ACCOUNTABILITY.
BUT THE VENEER IS GONE, ALL THIS
PROMISE ABOUT YOUR GONNA GET
THIS OPPORTUNITY, NO, THE WHOLE
GOAL IS YOU WILL NEVER GET A
CHANCE TO TAKE THAT VOTE AND
WHAT'S MORE, THE VOTE ON THIS
RESOLUTION IS A VOTE THAT SAYS
YOU DON'T WANT TO HEAR FROM
THESE WITNESSES YOURSELF.
YOU DON'T WANT TO EVALUATE THE
CREDIBILITY OF THESE WITNESSES
YOURSELF. MAYBE JUST MAYBE
YOU'LL LET THEM BE DEPOSED BUT
YOU DON'T WANT TO HEAR THEM
YOURSELF. YOU DON'T WANT TO SEE
THESE WITNESSES COME IN AND PUT
UP THEIR HAND AND TAKE AN OATH.
NOW, I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE RULES
OF THE DEPOSITIONS ARE GOING TO
BE. MAYBE THE PUBLIC ISN'T
GOING TO EVER GET TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS IN THOSE DEPOSITIONS WE
RELEASED ALL THE TRANSCRIPTS
FROM OUR DEPOSITIONS THOSE
SECRET DEPOSITIONS. WE HAVE NO
IDEA WHAT RULE THEY WILL ADOPT
FOR THESE DEPOSITIONS. MAYBE THE
PUBLIC WILL SEE THEM MAYBE WON'T
MAYBE YOU'LL GET TO SEE THEM
I ASSUME YOU'LL GET TO SEE THEM.
AT THE END OF THE DAY THIS IS A
VOTE YOU WILL HAVE TO CAST THIS
IS NO I DON'T WANT TO HEAR THEM
FOR MYSELF. AND NO, I DON'T WANT
TO EVALUATE THEIR CREDIBILITY
FOR MYSELF THIS IS AFTER ALL,
ONLY A VOTE ONLY A CASE ONLY A
TRIAL ABOUT THE IMPEACHMENT OF
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES. YOU HAVE A BANK ROBBERY
TRIAL, YOU HAVE A TRIAL
PEOPLE STEALING PIECE OF MAIL
YOUR GONNA GET LIVE WITNESSES
BUT THE IMPEACHMENT OF THE
UNITED STATES PRESIDENT WE DON'T
NEED TO SEE THE CREDIBILITY. IS
AT WHERE WE ARE TONIGHT? IS THAT
WHAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE EXPECT
OF A FAIR TRIAL, I DON'T THINK
IT IS. I YIELD BACK.
>> MR. CHIEF JUSTICE.
>> THE MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED I MOVED TO TABLE THE
AMENDMENT. IS THERE OF
SUFFICIENT SECOND? ECO-THE CLERK
WILL CALL THE ROLE. ALEXANDER,
BALDWIN, FOR RASUL. BENNETT.
BLACKBURN, BLUMENTHAL, BLUNT,
BOOKER,
BOZEMAN, BRON, BROWN, MR. BURR,
MISS CANTWELL, MRS. O, MR.
CARDIN, MR. CARPER, MR. CASEY,
MR. CASSIDY,
MS. COLLINS, MR. , MR. CORNYN,
MISS CORTEZ, MASTER
MR. COTTON. MR. KRAMER. MR.
CRAPO, MR. CRUZ, MR. DEAN'S,
MS. DUCKWORTH, MR. DURBIN, MR.
NZ, MISS ERNST, MRS. FEINSTEIN,
MRS. FISHER, MR. GARDNER, MRS.
JILL A BRAND, MR. GRAHAM,
MR. GRASSLEY, MS. HARRIS, MISS
HASSAN, MR. HOLLY,
MR. HEINRICH, MR. ONO, MR.
HOVEN, MRS. HYDE-SMITH,
MR. IN-HOME, MR. JOHNSON, MR.
JONES, MR. KANE, MR.
KENNEDY, MR. KING, MISSED CLOVER
CHART, MR. LANGFORD,
MR. LEAHY, MR. LEE, MRS.
LEFFLER, MR. MANCHIN, MR.
MARKEY, MR. McCONNELL, MS. Mc
SALLY, MR. MENENDEZ, MR.
MERKLEY, MR. MORAN, MISS
MURKOWSKI, MR. MURPHY, MRS.
MURRAY, MR. PAUL, MR. PERDUE,
MR. PETERS,
MR. RISH, MR. ROBERTS, MR.
ROMNEY, MS. ROSEN,
MR. ROUND, MR. RUBIO, MR.
SANDERS, MR. SAPP,
MR. SCHOTT, MR. SCHUMER, MR.
SCOTT OF FLORIDA, MR. SCOTT OF
SOUTH CAROLINA, MRS. SHAHEEN,
MR. SHELBY, MISS CINEMA, MISS
SMITH, MISS STABENOW, MR. SOLON,
MR. TESSLER, MR. THUNE,
MR. TILLIS, MR. TIMMY, MR.
UDALL, MR. VAN HOLLEN,
MR. WARNER, MISS WARREN, MR.
WHITEHOUSE,
MR. WICKER, MR. WYDEN, MR.
YOUNG,
>> IS THERE ANY SENATOR IN THE
CHAMBER WHO WOULD LIKE TO CHANGE
HIS OR HER VOTE, IF NOT THE YAYS
ARE 53, THE NAYS R 47, THE
AMENDMENT IS TABLED.
>> DEMOCRATIC LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED. I SEND AN AMENDMENT
TO THE DESK TO ALLOW ADEQUATE
TIME TO
HAVE WRITTEN RESPONSE TO MOTIONS
TO ANY OF THE PARTIES AND I ASK
THAT IT BE READ.
>> MR. SCHUMER
PROPOSES AN AMENDMENT NUMBER
1293 ON PAGE 2 BEGINNING ON LINE
10 STRIKE 11 A.M. ON WEDNESDAY
JANUARY 22, 2020 AND INSERT NINE
A.M. ON THURSDAY JANUARY 23
2020. ON PAGE 2 LINE 15, STRIKE
WEDNESDAY JANUARY 22 2020 AND
INSERT THURSDAY JANUARY 23 2020.
>> THE AMENDMENT IS ARGUABLE BY
THE PARTIES FOR TWO HOURS
EQUALLY DIVIDED. MANAGER SCHIFF
ARE YOU A PROPONENT  OF THIS
AMENDMENT? ARE YOU AN OPPONENT
OF THIS AMENDMENT? MR. SHIP YOU
MAY
PROCEED AND RESERVE TIME FOR THE
REBUTTAL IF YOU WISH.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHEAP JUSTICE
THIS AMENDMENT IS QUITE SIMPLE
UNDER THE McCONNELL RESOLUTION,
THE PARTIES FILE MOTIONS
TOMORROW AT NINE A.M.. WRITTEN
MOTIONS THAT IS, AND THE
RESPONDING PARTY HAS TO FILE
THEIR REPLY TWO HOURS LATER.
THAT REALLY DOESN'T GIVE ANYBODY
ENOUGH TIME TO RESPOND TO A
WRITTEN MOTION. WHEN THE
PRESIDENT'S TEAM FILED FOR
EXAMPLE THERE TRIAL BRIEF THAT
WAS OVER 100 PAGES, WE AT LEAST
HAD 24 HOURS TO FILE OUR REPLY
AND THAT'S ALL THAT WE WOULD ASK
FOR. IN THE CLINTON TRIAL AGAIN
IF WE ARE INTERESTED IN THE
CLINTON CASE THEY HAD 41 HOURS
TO RESPOND TO WRITTEN MOTIONS WE
ARE NOT ASKING FOR 41 HOURS BUT
WE ARE ASKING FOR ENOUGH TIME TO
WRITE A DECENT RESPONSE TO A
MOTION. THAT'S ESSENTIALLY A.
AND I WOULD HOPE THAT WE CAN
AGREE AT LEAST ON THIS. I
RESERVE THE BALANCE OF MY TIME.
>> MR.
CIPOLLONE. MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
MEMBER OF THE SENATE IT SEEMS
LIKE TOMORROW'S A DAY OFF IS
THAT RIGHT MR. SCHIFF. TODAY IS
TOMORROW  WE ARE READY TO
PROCEED WE WILL RESPOND TO ANY
MOTIONS WE WOULD ASK THE CHAMBER
TO REJECT THIS AMENDMENT.
>> 59 MINUTES REMAINING, MR.
SCHIFF.
THE MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZE. MR. CHIEF
JUSTICE I MOVED TO TABLE THE
AMENDMENT.
>> IS THERE SUFFICIENT SECOND?
THERE IS THE CLERK WILL CALL THE
ROLE. MR. ALEXANDER. MS.
BALDWIN. MR. BARRASSO. MR.
BENNETT. MRS. BLACKBURN MR.
BLUMENTHAL. MR. BLUNT. MR.
BOOKER MR. BOTH BOZEMAN.
MR. BROWN. MR. BURR.
MISS CANTWELL, MRS. O. MR.
CARDIN.
MR. CASEY MR. CASSIDY. MS.
COLLINS.
MR.  MR. CORNYN. MISSED CORTEZ
HYPO MASTER.
MR. COTTON. MR. CRAPO, MR. CRUZ.
MR. DAINES. MS. DUCKWORTH.
MR. DURBIN. MR. NZ. MISS ERNST.
MRS. FEINSTEIN.
MRS. FISHER. MR. GARDNER. MRS.
JILL A BRAND. MR. GRAHAM. MR.
GRASSLEY. MS. HARRIS. MISS
HASSAN. MR. HOLLY. MR. HEINRICH.
MR. HER ONO. MR. HOVEN. MRS.
HYDE SMITH. MRS. IN HOT.
MR. JOHNSON. MRS. JONES. MR.
KANE. MR. KENNEDY. MR. KING.
MISSED CLOVER CHART. MR.
LANKFORD. MR. LEAHY. MR. LEE.
MRS. LEFFLER. MR. MANCHIN. MR.
MARKEY. MR. McCONNELL. MS.
Mc SALLY, MR. MENENDEZ. MR.
MERKLEY. MR. MORAN, MS.
MURKOWSKI, MR. MURPHY, MRS.
MURRAY, MR. PAUL, MR. PERDUE,
MR. PETERS, MR. PORTMAN, MR.
REED, MR. RISH, MR. ROBERTS
, MR. ROMNEY, MS. ROSEN, MR.
ROUND, MR. RUBIO,
MR. SANDERS, MR. SETH, MR. SHOT,
MR. SCHUMER, MR. SCOTT OF
FLORIDA, MR. SCOTT OF SOUTH
CAROLINA. MRS. SHAHEEN. MR.
SHELBY, MISS CINEMA, MISS SMITH,
MISSED STABENOW, MR. SULLIVAN,
MR. TESTER, MR. THUNE, MR.
TILLIS, MR. TOOMEY, MR. UDALL.
MR. VAN HOLLEN. MR. WARNER. MISS
WARREN, MR. WHITEHOUSE,
MR. WICKER. MR. WYDEN. MR.
YOUNG, MISS DUCKWORTH,
>> IS THERE ANY SENATOR IN THE
CHAMBER WHO WISHES TO CHANGE HIS
OR HER VOTE? IF NOT, THE YAYS
ARE 50 TO THE NAYS R 48. THE
AMENDMENT IS TABLED.
>> THE DEMOCRATIC LEADER IS
RECOGNIZE. TO
>> ON BEHALF OF SENATOR VAN
HOLLEN I SEND AN AMENDMENT TO
THE DESK BY REQUIRING THE CHIEF
JUSTICE TO SUBPOENA WITNESSES
AND DOCUMENTS I ASK IT BE READ
THIS IS THE LAST AMENDMENT OF
THE EVENING.
>> THE CLERK WILL REPORT.
>> SENATOR FROM NEW YORK MR.
SCHUMER FOR MR. VAN HOLLEN
PROPOSES AN AMENDMENT NUMBER
1294 ON PAGE 3 LINE 20
THE PRESIDING OFFICER SHALL RULE
TO AUTHORIZE SUBPOENA OF ANY
WITNESS OR ANY DOCUMENTS THAT
THE SENATOR MOVES TO SUBPOENA IF
THE PRESIDING OFFICER DETERMINES
THE WITNESS OR THE DOCUMENT IS
LIKELY TO HAVE EVIDENCE RELEVANT
RELEVANT TO ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT FOR THE SENATE AFTER
ORDER.
>> THE AMENDMENT IS ARGUABLE BY
THE PARTIES FOR TWO HOURS
EQUALLY DIVIDED. IS SENATOR
SCHIFF ARE YOU OPPONENT OR
PROPONENT.  MR. CIPOLLONE
OPPONENT OR  PROPONENT. MR.
SCHIFF YOU MAY PROCEED AND
RESERVE TIME  FOR REBUTTAL.
>> SENATORS, THIS AMENDMENT
WOULD PROVIDE THAT THE PRESIDING
OFFICER SHALL RULE TO AUTHORIZE
THE SUBPOENA OF ANY WITNESS OR
ANY DOCUMENT, EXCUSE ME.
THE PRESIDING OFFICER SHALL RULE
TO OFFICER THE SUBPOENA OF ANY
WITNESS OR ANY DOCUMENT THAT THE
SENATOR OR PARTY MOVES TO
SUBPOENA IF THE PRESIDING
OFFICER DETERMINES IF THAT
WITNESSES LIKELY TO HAVE
EVIDENCE RELEVANT TO EITHER
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT, IS
QUITE SIMPLE.
IT WOULD ALLOW THE CHIEF
JUSTICE, THE SENATORS, THE HOUSE
MANAGERS, TO MAKE USE OF THE
EXPERIENCE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
OF THE SUPREME COURT TO HAVE
RELEVANCE OF WITNESSES. EITHER
PARTY CAN CALL WITNESSES IF WE
CAN'T COME TO AGREEMENT OF
WITNESSES TO OURSELVES IT WILL
PICK A NEUTRAL ARBITER OF THE
CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME
COURT. AFTER CHIEF JUSTICE FINDS
IT WOULD BE PROHIBITIVE THAT
WITNESS WILL BE ALLOWED TO
TESTIFY. IF CHIEF JUSTICE FINDS
IT WOULD BE IMMATERIAL THAT
CHIEF JUSTICE NOT TESTIFY. IS
STILL MAINTAINS THE SENATE IF
YOU DON'T AGREE WITH THE CHIEF
JUSTICE YOU CAN OVERRULE HIM. IF
YOU DON'T AGREE WITH WHAT THE
CHIEF JUSTICE HAS DECIDED. BUT
IT WOULD GIVE THIS DECISION TO A
NEUTRAL PARTY. THAT RIGHT IS
EXTENDED TO BOTH PARTIES, IT
WILL BE DONE IN LINE WITH THE
SCHEDULE THAT THE MAJORITY
LEADER HAS SET OUT, NOT THE
SCHEDULE WE WANT, WE STILL DON'T
THINK IT MAKES ANY SENSE
AND HAVE A TRIAL AND THEN DECIDE
ON WITNESSES IF WE HAVE TO DO IT
THAT WAY IT LOOKED LIKE WE ARE
LET'S HAVE A NEUTRAL ARBITER
DECIDE. MUCH AS HE MADE LOATH
THE TASK, WHETHER A WITNESS WE
WOULD HOPE THAT
IF THERE IS NOTHING ELSE WE CAN
AGREE ON TONIGHT, WE COULD AGREE
TO ALLOW THE CHIEF JUSTICE TO
GIVE US THE BENEFIT OF HIS
EXPERIENCE IN DECIDING WHICH
WITNESS
IS RELEVANT TO THIS INQUIRY AND
WHICH WITNESSES ARE NOT. AND
WITH THAT I RESERVE THE BALANCE
OF MY TIME.
>> MR. CIPOLLONE. MR. CHIEF
JUSTICE, MEMBERS OF THE SENATE
AND WITH NODE  DISRESPECT TO THE
CHIEF JUSTICE, THIS IS NOT AN
APPELLATE COURT
, THIS IS UNITED STATES SENATE
THERE IS NOT AN ARBITRATION
CLAUSE IN THE UNITED STATES
CONSTITUTION THE SENATE WILL
HAVE THE SOLE AUTHORITY TO HOLD
THE TRIAL. WE OPPOSE THE
AMENDMENT.
>> MR. SHIFT YOU HAVE 57 MINUTES
REMAINING.
>> DON'T LET IT BE SAID WE
HAVEN'T MADE PROGRESS TODAY.
>> THE PRESENCE COUNSEL HAS
ACKNOWLEDGED THIS IS NOT AN
APPELLATE COURT I'M GLAD WE HAVE
ESTABLISHED THAT. THIS IS A
TRIAL. IT SHOULD BE
BASED ON THE RECORD FROM THE
COURT BELOW BECAUSE THERE'S NO
COURT BELOW BECAUSE AS THE
COUNCIL HAS JUST ADMITTED, YOU
ARE NOT THE APPELLATE COURT. BUT
I THINK WE HAVE ALSO SEEN HERE
TONIGHT IS NOT ONLY
DON'T WANT YOU TO HEAR THESE
WITNESSES THEY DON'T WANT TO
HEAR THEM LIVE THEY DON'T WANT
TO HEAR THEM DEPOSED, THEY DON'T
WANT A NEUTRAL JUSTICE TO WEIGH
IN BECAUSE OF THE WITH NEUTRAL
JUSTICE WEIZEN AND SAYS PRETTY
HARD TO ARGUE THAT JOHN BOLTON
IS NOT RELEVANT HERE. PRETTY
HARD TO ARGUE MICK MULVANEY IS
NOT RELEVANT HERE I JUST WATCH
THAT VIDEOTAPE WHERE HE SAID
THEY DISCUSSED IT WITH THE
PRESIDENT. IT'S PRETTY RELEVANT.
WHAT ABOUT HUNTER BIDEN.
THAT'S THE REAL REASON THEY
DON'T WANT THE CHIEF JUSTICE TO
RULE ON THE MATERIALITY OF THE
WITNESS RIGHT? WHAT CAN HUNTER
BIDEN TELL US ABOUT WHY THE
PRESIDENT WITHHELD HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
TO UKRAINE. I CAN TELL YOU WHAT
HE CAN TELL US, NOTHING. WHAT
DOES HUNTER BIDEN KNOW ABOUT WHY
THE PRESIDENT WOULDN'T MEET WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. HE CAN'T
TELL US ANYTHING ABOUT THAT .
WHAT CAN HE TELL US ABOUT THESE
DEFENSE APARTMENT
DOCUMENTS OR THE DOCUMENTS WHAT
CAN HE TELL US ABOUT THE
VIOLATION OF THE LAW AND
WITHHOLDING THE MONEY HE CAN
TELL US ANYTHING ABOUT THAT. IS
HIS TESTIMONY IS IMMATERIAL AND
IRRELEVANT. THE ONLY PURPOSE IN
CALLING HIM IS TO
SUCCEED IN WHAT THEY FAILED TO
DO EARLIER IN THIS WHOLE SCHEME
AND THAT IS TO SMEAR JOE BIDEN
IT BY GOING AFTER HIS SON. WE
TRUST THE JEEP JUSTICE OF THE
SUPREME COURT TO MAKE THAT
DECISION. THAT HE IS NOT A
MATERIAL WITNESS. THIS ISN'T
LIKE A FANTASY FOOTBALL
. WE ARE NOT MAKING TRADES OR WE
SHOULDN'T BE. WE'LL TRADE YOU
ONE COMPLETELY IRRELEVANT
IRRELEVANT
WITNESS THAT ALLOWS US TO SMEAR
THE PRESIDENT'S OPPONENT IN
EXCHANGE FOR ONES THAT ARE
REALLY RELEVANT BUT YOU SHOULD
HEAR. NOT A FAIR TRIAL. IF YOU
CAN'T TRUST THE CHIEF JUSTICE
APPOINTED BY A REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENT TO MAKE A FAIR
DECISION ABOUT MATERIALITY, I
THINK IT BETRAYS THE WEAKNESS OF
YOUR CASE. I'LL BE HONEST,
THERE'S BEEN SOME APPREHENSIVE
ON YOUR ON OUR SIDE ABOUT THIS
IDEA.
BUT WE HAVE CONFIDENCE THE CHIEF
JUSTICE WOULD MAKE A FAIR AND
IMPARTIAL DECISION THAT HE WOULD
DO IMPARTIAL JUSTICE. IT'S
SOMETHING THAT MY COLLEAGUES
REPRESENTING THE PRESIDENT
DON'T. THEY DON'T. THEY DON'T
WANT A FAIR JUDICIAL RULING
ABOUT THIS. THEY ONLY WANT ONE
YOU CAN OVERTURN. BECAUSE THEY
DON'T WANT A FAIR TRIAL AND SO
WE END WHERE WE STARTED. ONE
PARTY WANTING A FAIR TRIAL, ONE
PARTY THAT DOESN'T. ONE PARTY
THAT DOESN'T FEAR OF THEIR TRIAL
AND ONE PARTY THAT IS TERRIFIED
OF A FAIR TRIAL. I YIELD BACK.
>> MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED. MR. G JUSTICE I MAKE
A MOTION TO TABLE
THE AMENDMENT AND ASK FOR YAYS
AND A's.
>> IS THERE IF SUFFICIENT
SECOND. THE CLERK WILL CALL THE
ROLE.
>> MR. ALEXANDER. MS. BALDWIN.
MR. BARRASSO. MR. BENNETT. MRS.
BLACKBURN. MR. BLUMENTHAL.
MR. BLUNT MR. BOOKER. MR.
BOZEMAN. MR. BRAUN.
MR. BROWN MR. BURR MISS CAN'T
WELL. MR. O, MR. CARDIN.
MR. CARVER. MR. CASEY. MR.
CASSIDY. MISS COLLINS. MR.
MR. CORNYN. MISS CORTEZ MASTRO.
MR. COTTON.
MR. KRAMER, MR. CRAPO. MR. CRUZ.
MR. DAINES. MISS DUCKWORTH. MR.
DURBIN. MR. RENZI.
MRS. FEINSTEIN.
MR. GARDNER MR. GRAHAM, MR.
GRASSLEY. MS. HARRIS. MISS HALF
AND. MR. HOLLY. MR. HEINRICH.
MISS HER ONO.
MR. HOVEN. MRS. HYDE-SMITH. MR.
IN HALF. MR. JOHNSON. MR. JONES.
MR. KANE. MR. KENNEDY. MR. KING.
MR. CLOVER CHART. MR. LANKFORD.
MR. LEAHY. MR. LEE. MRS.
LEFFLER. MR. MANCHIN. MR.
MARKEY. MR. McCONNELL. MS. Mc
SALLY. MR. MENENDEZ. MR.
MERKLEY. MR. MORAN. MS.
MURKOWSKI. MR. MURPHY. MRS.
MURRAY. MR. PAUL. MR. PERDUE.
MR. PETERS.
MR. PORTMAN. MR. REED. MR. RISH.
MR. ROBERTS. MR. ROMNEY.
MS. ROSEN. MR. ROUND. MR. RUBIO.
MR. SANDERS.
MR. STAFF. MR. SHOT. MR.
SCHUMER.
MR. SCOTT OF FLORIDA. MR. SCOTT
OF SOUTH CAROLINA. MRS. SHAHEEN.
MR. SHELBY. MISS CINEMA. MS.
SMITH. MISS STABENOW.
MR. SULLIVAN. MR. TESSLER. MR.
THUNE. MR. TILLIS. MR. TOOMEY.
MR. UDALL. MR. VAN HOLLAND. MR.
WARNER. MS. WARREN.
MR. WHITEHOUSE. MR. WICKER. MR.
WYDEN. MR. YOUNG.
>> IS THERE ANY SENATOR IN THE
CHAMBER WHO WOULD LIKE TO CHANGE
HIS OR HER BOAT
. IF NOT THE YAYS ARE 53, THE
NAYS R 47. THE AMENDMENT IS
TABLED
.
>> CHIEF JUSTICE. THE MAJORITY
LEADER IS RECOGNIZED. I LIKE TO
SAY ON BEHALF OF YOU ALL OF US
WE WOULD LIKE TO THANK YOU FOR
YOUR PATIENCE.
>> COMES WITH THE JOB.
ON SCHEDULING, ASSUMING THERE
ARE NO MORE AMENDMENTS, THE NEXT
VOTE WILL BE ON ADOPTION OF THE
RESOLUTION AND THEN ALL SENATORS
SHOULD STAY IN THEIR SEAT UNTIL
THE TRIAL IS ADJOURNED FOR THE
EVENING.
>> CENTER RESOLUTION 483.
THERE IS A SUFFICIENT SECOND. OF
THE CLERK WILL CALL THE ROLE.
>> MR. ALEXANDER. MS. BALDWIN.
MR. BARRASSO. MR. BENNETT. MRS.
BLACKBURN. MR. BLUMENTHAL. MR.
BLUNT. MR. BOOKER. MR. BOZEMAN.
MR. BRAUN. MR. BROWN.
MR. BURR. MISCOUNT WELL. MRS. O.
MR. CARDIN. MR. CARDIN
. MR. CARPER. MR. CASEY. MR.
CASSIDY. TO MS. COLLINS. MR.
. MR. CORNYN. MISS CORTEZ-MASTRO
. TO MR. COTTON. MR. KRAMER. MR.
CRAPO. MR.
CRUZ. MR. DAINES. MISS
DUCKWORTH. MR. DURBIN. MR.
RENZI. MS. ERNST. MRS. FEINSTEIN
. MRS. FISHER. MR. GARDNER.
MRS. GILLIBRAND. MR. GRAHAM. MR.
GRASSLEY. MS. HARRIS. MS.
HASSAN. MR. HOLLY. MR. HEINRICH.
MS. HER ONO.
MR. HOVEN. MRS. HYDE-SMITH. MR.
IN HALF. MR. JOHNSON. MR. JONES.
MR. KANE. MR. KENNEDY. MR. KING.
MR. CLOVER CHART.
MR. LANKFORD. MR. LEAHY. MR.
LEE. MRS. LEFFLER. MR. MANCHIN.
MR. MARKEY. MR. McCONNELL. MS.
Mc SALLY. MR. MENENDEZ.
MR. MERKLEY. MR. MORAN. MS.
MURKOWSKI. MR. MURPHY. MRS.
MURRAY. MR. PAUL. MR. PERDUE.
MR. PETERS. MR. PORTMAN.
MR. REED. MR. RASCH. MR.
ROBERTS. MR. ROMNEY. MS. ROSEN.
MR. BROWN. MR. RUBIO. MR.
SANDERS. MR. STAFF. MR. SHOT.
MR. SCHUMER. MR. SCOTT OF
FLORIDA. MR. SCOTT OF SOUTH
CAROLINA. MRS. SHAHEEN. MR.
SHELBY. MISS CINEMA.
MISS SMITH. MISS STABENOW. MR.
SULLIVAN. MR. TESTER.
MR. THUNE. MR. TILLIS. MR.
TOOMEY. MR. UDALL. MR. VAN
HOLLAND. MR. WARNER. MS. WARREN.
MR. WHITEHOUSE. MR. WICKER.
MR. WYDEN. MR. YOUNG.
MR. HEINRICH. NO.
IS THERE A SENATOR IN THE
CHAMBER THAT WOULD LIKE TO
CHANGE HER OR HIS VOTE. IN THE
EYES ARE
53 THE NAYS R 47. OF THE
RESOLUTION IS AGREED TO.
>> I RECOGNIZE THE SENATE BE
ADJOURNED UNTIL JANUARY 22nd
THIS CONSTITUTES THE ADJOURNMENT
OF THE SENATE.
>> SO ORDERED, THE SENATE IS
ADJOURNED.